When Mr. Dashwood (Tom Wilkinson) dies, his wife (Gemma Jones) and three daughters – Elinor (Emma Thompson), Marianne (Kate Winslet) and Margaret (Emilie François) – are left with an inheritance of only £500 a year; the bulk of his estate, Norland Park, is left to his son John (James Fleet) from a previous marriage.
John and his greedy, snobbish wife Fanny (Harriet Walter) immediately install themselves in the large house; Fanny invites her brother Edward Ferrars (Hugh Grant) to stay with them.
She frets about the budding friendship between Edward and Elinor, believing he can do better, and does everything she can to prevent it from developing into a romantic attachment.

Sir John Middleton (Robert Hardy), a cousin of the widowed Mrs. Dashwood, offers her a small cottage house on his estate, Barton Park in Devonshire.
She and her daughters move in, and are frequent guests at Barton Park.
Marianne meets the older Colonel Brandon (Alan Rickman), who falls in love with her at first sight.
Competing for her affections is the dashing but deceitful John Willoughby (Greg Wise), with whom Marianne falls in love.
On the morning she expects him to propose marriage to her, he instead leaves hurriedly for London.
Unbeknown to the Dashwood family, Brandon's ward Beth, illegitimate daughter of his former love Eliza, is pregnant with Willoughby's child, and Willoughby's aunt Lady Allen has disinherited him upon discovering this.

Sir John's mother-in-law, Mrs. Jennings (Elizabeth Spriggs), invites her daughter and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Palmer (Hugh Laurie and Imelda Staunton), to visit.
They bring with them the impoverished Lucy Steele (Imogen Stubbs).
Lucy confides in Elinor that she and Edward have been engaged secretly for five years, thus dashing Elinor's hopes of a future with him.
Mrs. Jennings takes Lucy, Elinor, and Marianne to London, where they meet Willoughby at a ball.
He barely acknowledges their acquaintance, and they learn he is engaged to the extremely wealthy Miss Grey.
Marianne becomes inconsolable.
The clandestine engagement of Edward and Lucy also comes to light.
Edward's mother demands that he break off the engagement.
When he honourably refuses, his fortune is taken from him and given to his younger brother Robert (Richard Lumsden).

On their way home to Devonshire, Elinor and Marianne stop for the night at the country estate of the Palmers, who live near Willoughby.
Marianne cannot resist going to see Willoughby's estate and walks a long way in a torrential rain to do so.
As a result, she becomes seriously ill and is nursed back to health by Elinor after being rescued by Colonel Brandon.
Marianne recovers, and the sisters return home.
They learn that Miss Steele has become Mrs. Ferrars and assume that she is married to Edward.
However, he arrives to explain that Miss Steele has unexpectedly wed Robert Ferrars and Edward is thus released from his engagement.
Edward proposes to Elinor and becomes a vicar, whilst Marianne falls in love with and marries Colonel Brandon.