In Kansas, a family friend discovers the dead bodies of four of the members of the Clutter family.
While reading The New York Times, the story of the Clutters rivets writer Truman Capote (Philip Seymour Hoffman), who calls The New Yorker magazine editor William Shawn (Bob Balaban) to tell him that he plans to document the tragedy.

Capote travels to Kansas, inviting childhood friend Nelle Harper Lee (Catherine Keener) to come along.
Capote intends to interview those involved with the victims, the Clutter family, with Lee as his go-between and facilitator.
Alvin Dewey (Chris Cooper), the Kansas Bureau of Investigation's lead detective on the case, brushes him off, but Dewey's wife Marie (Amy Ryan) is a fan of Capote's writing and persuades Dewey to invite Capote and Lee to their house for dinner.
She is starstruck by Capote's stories of being on movie sets with film stars.

Dewey warms up to Capote and allows him to view the photographs of the victims.
The Deweys, Lee, and Capote are having dinner when the murder suspects, Perry Smith (Clifton Collins, Jr.) and Richard "Dick" Hickock (Mark Pellegrino), are caught.
Flattery, bribery and a keen insight into the human condition facilitate Capote's visits to the prison where the accused are being held.

Capote begins to form an attachment to Smith.
He informs Shawn of his intent to expand the story into a full-length book.
Following the trial and conviction, Capote is able to gain continued access to the murderers by bribing Warden Marshall Krutch (Marshall Bell).

Capote spends the following years regularly visiting Smith and learning about his life, excepting a year-long stint when Capote goes off to Morocco and Spain to write the "first three parts" of the book, accompanied by his romantic partner Jack Dunphy (Bruce Greenwood).

The story of Smith's life, his remorseful manner, and emotional sincerity impress Capote, who becomes emotionally attached to him despite the gruesome murders.
Smith refuses to tell Capote what happened on that fateful night, angering Capote.
After much persuasion, Smith tells him in great detail.
The story becomes a meditation upon the need for redemption even in very grave circumstances.

Legal appeals drag on for years.
Capote is exasperated, as he is unable to have his book published without an ending.
In the meantime, Lee writes a novel, To Kill a Mockingbird, which becomes a best-seller, to Capote's surprise and jealous annoyance.

The last appeal is finally rejected.
Capote is an eyewitness as Smith and Hickock are hanged, with Smith's hanging being explicitly shown.
Capote talks to Lee about the horrifying experience and laments that he could not have done anything to stop it.
She replies, "Maybe not; the fact is you didn't want to."
This is the last line of the film.
The next and last scene shows Capote looking at photos from the case as well as writings and drawings given to him by Smith.