Dale Denton (Seth Rogen) is a 25-year-old process server and habitual pot smoker.
He makes a visit to the home of his drug dealer, Saul Silver (James Franco), to buy weed.
Saul tells him that he may already know the identity of his next service, Ted Jones (Gary Cole).
Dale drives to Ted's house and witnesses a cop, Officer Carol Brazier (Rosie Perez), and Ted shoot an Asian man to death.
Dale panics and flees the area, but leaves his roach at the scene which contains a rare strain of marijuana called Pineapple Express.
Ted is able to identify the strain and sends his two henchmen, Budlofsky and Matheson (Kevin Corrigan and Craig Robinson) to dealer Red (Danny McBride), who discloses that he has only sold the pot to Saul.

Dale flees to Saul's apartment and learns that Ted is a dangerous drug lord and could trace the roach back to Saul.
Dale and Saul flee into the nearby woods while Ted's henchmen persuade Red to arrange a meeting between Saul and Red.
They accidentally fall asleep in Dale's car and wake up to find that they missed their meeting with Red.
They leave the woods and arrive at Red's house, hoping to determine whether Ted has linked them with him.
Red says Ted is not after them but Dale realizes that he is lying, starting a fight that results in Red getting knocked out.
They wake Red and question him until he reveals that Ted has discovered who they are and means to kill them.
Convinced that they are being pursued, Dale and Saul decide that they must leave the city.

In order to leave town, Dale and Saul sell some Pineapple Express to raise bus fare.
However, a police officer witnesses Dale and arrests him for selling marijuana.
Dale tries to convince the arresting officer that Officer Brazier is corrupt, but Saul leaps out in front of the police car and hijacks it thinking that it is Braizer driving.
Officer Brazier hears a police radio call of Dale's arrest and pursues Dale and Saul in a high-speed chase but they successfully evade her.
After an argument with each other about the situation they are in, Dale and Saul go their separate ways.
Saul visits his grandmother in an assisted living home but is kidnapped and held hostage in Ted's lair beneath a barn.
Dale enlists Red to help him rescue Saul but Red unexpectedly backs out at the last minute and Dale is captured.
While Dale and Saul are held hostage, they reconcile with each other and make plans to escape.

Suddenly, a rival Asian drug gang attacks the barn to avenge a member's death at the hands of Ted and Officer Brazier, the same murder that Dale had witnessed.
Dale and Saul finally free themselves but are caught by Matheson.
Matheson grazes Dale's ear with a gunshot but is disarmed and shot by Saul.
Dale and Saul join the fight and an ensuing brawl between Dale and Ted leads to Ted's death when one of the Asians activates a bomb that sets fire to the barn.
Before then, when Budlowski refuses to kill Saul, Matheson emerges from the lair and shoots him in the chest, killing him, then turns around to kill Saul but Red drives through the barn and saves Saul by crushing Matheson with his car but is supposedly shot to death by Brazier.
Red's car inside the barn explodes, flips over and kills her.
The explosion incapacitates Saul but Dale finds and carries him and they escape from the burning barn.
Red, wounded but still alive, also escapes and reconciles with them.
Afterward, they eat at a diner and talk about their adventure before Saul's grandmother picks them up to take them to the hospital.