FRIDAY THE 13TH: THE FINAL CHAPTER Written by Bruce Hidemi Sakow
Screenplay by Barney Cohen Based on characters created by: Victor Miller, Ron Kurz, Martin Kitrosser, and Carol Watson Transcribed by Eric E. Scott 
SCENE 1. Night time. A police helicopter flies overhead at Higgins Haven, shining a spotlight on various areas around the cottage. 5 or 6 ambulances and 6 or 7 police cars are parked around the cottage and the barn. A cop with a flashlight is directing traffic.
MEDIC: ...got another one...let's get your ass over here...
MEDIC#2: Where are they?
A policeman is walking down the porch. Two medics carry a body bag on a stretcher toward an ambulance. A man runs toward the barn as a body is being carried out. Two police officers are standing over the dead body of Jason Voorhees. One of the officers bends down over the body and retrieves the axe. He places it in a plastic evidence bag and hands it to the other officer. An ambulance travels down the road toward the cottage. It's stopped by the traffic cop. Inside are two Medics, one male (Vincent), passenger side, one female (Lainie), driving. Vincent rolls down his window to talk to the cop.
VINCENT: What do you need? Where do you need it?
TRAFFIC COP: We got ten of those uses in the barn. VINCENT: What's wrong with them? TRAFFIC COP: He's dead, yeah, they're all dead. You can pull it over there. VINCENT: (to LAINIE) All dead. Some emergency. Pull it over there. 
The ambulance makes it's way toward the barn.
SCENE 2. Inside the barn, The Medics stare at the body of Jason Voorhees. Vincent talks to the police officer.
VINCENT: This the guy who's been leaving the wet stuff?
OFFICER: Yeah. He got seven kids and three bikers. This time they got him. VINCENT: (to JAMIE) Hey.... LAINIE: Hmmmm...(she stares at the body.) VINCENT: Belt him. LAINIE: Yeah.
She moves toward the stretcher holding Jason's body. As she is reaching for the belt to strap him in, Jason's hand slips out from underneath the sheet. Lainie jumps back, startled.
VINCENT: What's the matter with you? He's dead. 
Vincent belts the body and looks at the officer. They both laugh at Lainie. Jason's body is placed inside the ambulance. The doors are shut and the megaphone comes on from the helicopter above. 
HELICOPTER: OK, boys and girls, let's get going! 
All the vehicles make their way down the driveway and out to the main road. The helicopter follows the last car out. Higgin's Haven is now quiet, peaceful, serene.
SCENE 3. The medics push the stretcher through the hospital doors and down the hallway toward the morgue. They pass a room where Chris is crying in her parent's arms. They continue through the hospital, entering the morgue's recieving doors. The morgue attendant, Axel greets them eating a sandwich.
VINCENT: (to Axel handing him a clipboard) Here. Sign it. AXEL: Hmmm...yeah... 
Axel lays the clipboard and the sandwich down on Jason's stomach and signs the papers.
VINCENT: This your last?
AXEL: Nahh, got one more over there. Real cute girl. VINCENT: Was. AXEL: Huh, still is...all ya gotta do is go over there... LAINIE: (disgusted) Ohh. VINCENT: Nice talk, real nice talk. I get the top copy.
Axel rips off the sheet and hands it to the medic. They begin to exit.
LAINIE: Take care, Axel.
Axel watches them go, stares at the clipboard, and takes a bite out of his sandwich.
SCENE 4. Axel sneaks up on Nurse Morgan, working inventory in another part of the hospital.
AXEL: I'm free doll.
N.MORGAN: And a bargain at twice the price. AXEL: Hey! What's the matter? N.MORGAN: I have a headache, Axel! For you, I always have a headache. AXEL: Ohh, I can fix that! Meet me in the cold room, I'm closing up for the night. Whaddya say?
Back in recieving, the sheet that covers the body of Jason Voorhees moves ever so slightly, or does it?
N.MORGAN: Axel, I'm not going to fake any more orgasms for you! AXEL: You got the curse? N.MORGAN: (looking at him and smiling) If I do, you're it!
SCENE 5. Inside the morgue operating room, the lights are off and a tv is playing. Axel was watching a women's exercise program. Nurse Morgan enters the room and closes the door.
N.MORGAN: Axel? Axel? 
Nurse Morgan comes further into the room and watches the tv for a few moments. She shakes her head.
N.MORGAN: Awww...Axel.
A sheet on a table behind her starts to rise up. Nurse Morgan is reaching to switch the channel on the tv when Axel comes up behind her.
N.MORGAN: AAAHHH!!! God, Axel!
AXEL: I'm so glad you could come. N.MORGAN: Axel you're the Super Bowl of self-abuse! I just cam to watch the news. TV ANNOUNCER: And now back to Dave, and the tragic story of mass slayings at the local vicinity of Crystal Lake.
Axel sits dejected on the bench. He whistles for Nurse Morgan to sit beside him. She sits down and stares at the tv.
TV ANNOUNCER: Thank you, Bill. And so begins yet another chapter of the story most residents of Crystal Lake had prayed was over. A trail of mangled bodies has finally led local authorities to conclude...
Axel uses his remote to switch the channel back to the exercise show. Nurse Morgan looks at him and gets off the bench to turn the channel by hand.
N.MORGAN: I really came to watch the news.
She changes the channel and sits down beside Axel.
TV ANNOUNCER: ...still awaiting identification of the body. The perpetrator's body. But to answer your question...yes. The, uh, man responsible for the murders in Wessex County this past week, is at the moment in the Wessex County Medical Center Morgue...
N.MORGAN: Yayyy!!!! TV ANNOUNCER: ...Thank you Officer Davidson. Let's welcome...
Axel pats the body of Jason Voorhees lying on a metal slab behind the bench him and Nurse Morgan are sitting on.
AXEL: That's you they're talking about, pal. TV ANNOUNCER: ...I'm sure that you would agree that tonight... N.MORGAN: I don't believe you, Axel! AXEL: Then...shut...my...mouth 
Nurse Morgan and Axel start to kiss. Axel leans back on the bench. Nurse Morgan climbs on top of him.
TV ANNOUNCER: ...are getting their first good nights sleep in a long time...local law enforcement...and now back to...
Axel uses the remote to change the channel back to the exercise show. Nurse Morgan is none the wiser as she keeps kissing and feeling Axel. Suddenly Jason's hand slips from underneath the sheet and brushes against Nurse Morgan's leg. She screams and jumps to her feet.
N.MORGAN: AAAHHH!!!
AXEL: Jesus Christmas! Holy, Jesus, Goddamned! Holy Jesus jumping Christmas shit!!! 
Nurse Morgan stands in front of the door ready to leave.
N.MORGAN: You better get that sucker in the icebox! I must be nuts! I must...good night, Axel!
AXEL: Hey, where ya going? N.MORGAN: I'll tell you where I'm going, I'm going crazy!
Nurse Morgan exits the morgue. She enters a stockroom and leans against a wall for a moment. She begins her inventory, still shaking. She drops a couple of bottles on the floor.
N.MORGAN: Shit! Shit!
She bends down to pick the glass up. Meanwhile, Axel puts Jason's body into one of the coolers and shuts the door. The door doesn't catch, but he doesn't notice. He sits back in front of the tv with a steaming cup of coffee and watches the women exercise.
AXEL: (to tv) Hiya girls, thanks for waiting.
One of the women makes a particulary sexual move and Axel sighs
AXEL: Oh no. (he takes a sip of coffee and spills it) Aw shit!!
Axel leans forward to put the coffee cup on the table when Jason appears from behind him and grabs his forehead. Jason places a surgical hacksaw on his throat and runs it across. Blood spurts everywhere. He then twists Axel's head around. Nurse Morgan is cleaning up the broken glass. Her back is to the door as she hears somebody enter the stockroom.
N.MORGAN: Get lost, Axel, I'm busy! I've had more than enough of you for one night. Read my lips (she turns) leave me alone.....AAAHHHH!!!
Jason grabs her by the throat and pushes her up against the wall. He holds her there while he shoves a scalpel into her chest and then rips it down to her stomach. Nurse Morgan screams. 
SCENE 6. Mrs. Jarvis and her daughter, Tricia are jogging around Crystal Lake.
TRICIA: Talked to Dad.
M.JARVIS: How is he? TRICIA: He asked me to come out and see him. M.JARVIS: Did he tell you to take a number? TRICIA: No, but he asked about you. M.JARVIS: Did he? Actually, you really should go out there and see him. TRICIA: Yeah, I know... M.JARVIS: I bet he could stand a visit. What do you think? TRICIA: I think you're getting horny. M.JARVIS: Hahahahahaha.
SCENE 7. Tommy Jarvis, 12, sits at a desk playing Zaxxon. He wears an alien mask that he created himself. Mrs. Jarvis and Tricia come into the house from their jog.
M.JARVIS: Tommy, turn that down!
TOMMY: Mom, I got 98,000 M.JARVIS: How many robots is that? TOMMY: 35.
While Tommy's head is turned, the robots destroy his ship.
M.JARVIS: Now, why don't you try killing a few more up in your room?
Mrs. Jarvis heads for the kitchen while Tricia heads upstairs to change. Tommy follows his Mom.
TOMMY: I can't, I need a bypass patchcord.
M.JARVIS: Maybe you can get one in town. Trish'll drive you. Oh and honey, get a haircut, hmmmm... TOMMY: Awww, Ma! M.JARVIS: That's a nice mask.
Tommy takes off the mask and walks over to the kitchen table. Mrs. Jarvis is getting a glass of water. 
TOMMY: Do I have to get a haircut?
M.JARVIS: You're getting pretty teriffic at making those things. TOMMY: Thanks, I just customized it. M.JARVIS: Where's Gordon? TOMMY: He went out. M.JARVIS: Oh, somebody left the front door open again. TOMMY: We're in the country. M.JARVIS: What if the psycho walks in?
Tricia enters the kitchen and goes to the fridge.
TRICIA: He'll probably challenge him to a game of Zaxxon. (to Mrs. Jarvis) Did you hear anything more about the place next door? M.JARVIS: Uh-huh, it's been rented by some kids. TRICIA: Great! TOMMY: How many? M.JARVIS: Six. TRICIA: Well, ya know, it would be nice to have some company around here.
SCENE 8. Six kids in a beat-up station wagon are cruising down the road toward Crystal Lake and a fun-filled time in the house they rented.
GROUP: (singing) Dadadadada country boy, country boy, sitting in the grass, along came a prarie dog and crawled right up his ask me no more questions...
In the back of the station wagon, Ted and Jimmie discuss Jimmie's curresnt girlfriend. The rest of the group sing and goof around.
TED: You broke up with "BJ" Betty?
JIMMIE: So to speak...and would you lighten up on her...she's all right. TED: Hah! I'll say she's all right. PAUL: (to Doug) Why don't you look at the map or something. TED: You should have treated her right. I mean that girl wanted to be treated right. JIMMIE: I did. I did. I treated her right. That's what driving me so crazy. I mean, first I would call her and she would take my calls, but she would have something that she would have to do. And then, she wouldn't even take my calls. I mean, can you figure that? What the fuck happened? TED: Let me put it in the ol' computer. JIMMIE: Hey I'm serious about this, Ted. 
Ted pretends to have a computer in front of him. He starts to tap out keys on a notebook pad.
TED: Hey! The computer don't lie! Ok, let's see...
Ted taps on his "computer" and pretends to read the screen. He gets an "oh shit" look and stares at Jimmie.
JIMMIE: What?
TED: It says...it says you're...a dead fuck. JIMMIE: What? A dead fuck? TED: A lousy lay. (laughing) you know, dead pecker. JIMMIE: Oh, I see. Don't hold it back from me Doc, I can take it! Give it to me straight! TED: I did not say it. The computer did. JIMMIE: Yeah, well, there is no computer! TED: Aha! And there's no Betty either! JIMMIE: Then I'm a dead fuck. TED: Like I said, the computer don't lie. JIMMIE: God, I'm horny.
SCENE 9. The kids are lost. Paul pulls over to the side of the road and looks over to Doug who's reading the map. Samantha, Paul's girlfriend, talks to Sara, sitting in the seat beside her. Samantha leans forward to talk to Paul.
SAMANTHA: Where are we now?
PAUL: Lost. DOUG: We are lost. 
Samantha notices they are parked near a cemetary and looks at the gravestones. She looks at Sara.
SAMANTHA: Pretty creepy, huh?
SARA: Yeah. DOUG: (to Paul) All right, I think I got it. Go straight ahead two miles and hang a right.
Paul pulls onto the road. The tombstone that Samantha and Sara were staring at reads:
PAMELA VOORHEES 1930-1979 At Rest
SCENE 10. A female hitchhiker stands by the side of the road. She sees the station wagon coming and grabs her sign which reads "Canada and Love". She flashes the sign at the car in hopes of getting a ride.
SAMANTHA: Paul, let's pick her up!
PAUL: Sammy, where are we gonna put her?
Paul waves as they pass the hitchhiker. Ted yells out of the back window.
TED: Hey honey! Gotta a sister? Ruff! Ruff!
The teenage hitchiker turns her sign around quickly. The other sign reads "Fuck You!". She raises her middle finger at the car. She looks down the road to see if anyone else is coming at goes to sit on her backpack. She fumbles for a minute but finds a banana inside the backpack. She peels and takes a bite. She hears a noise behind her, but before she can turn around, Jason grabs a handful of hair. With his other hand, he shoves a large hunting knife into the back of her neck. The blood runs down her shirt.
SCENE 11. Evening. The Jarvis family prepares dinner.
TRICIA: Oh, Mom I thought we were having pizza.
M.JARVIS: I thought so too, honey but I have a refridgerator full of leftovers. You're not smiling. You're not in the mood for my tuna salad? TRICIA: Well... M.JARVIS: (looking at Tommy) I'm not either. I'm in the mood for... TOMMY: No M.JARVIS: Yes.
Tommy backs away from his mom. Tricia comes up from behind to trap him.
M.JARVIS: I feel like...
TOMMY: No... M.JARVIS: A Jarvis hug! 
Tricia and Mrs. Jarvis hug the trapped Tommy. The station wagon pulls up to the house next door. While Tommy gets a "Jarvis Hug" a scratching noise begins at the door.
TOMMY: Hey, somebody's at the door.
Tommy tries to wiggle free.
M.JARVIS: Oh no you don't!
TRICIA: No mom, I heard that too.
Tommy breaks free and heads for the door.
TOMMY: I'll go!
Tommy opens the front door and their dog, Gordon, is there.
TOMMY: Gordon! Hey Gordon! Where have ya been, huh? Have you been sneaking around? Have you got a girlfriend or something?
M.JARVIS: (from kitchen) Tommy! Close the door!
TOMMY: Listen Gordon, we'll talk later.
Tommy closes the door once Gordon is inside. At the rented cottage, the kids begin to unpack their things.
TED: All right!
PAUL: Hey Doug, throw a beer. TED: (handing Doug some beer) You got it? JIMMIE: (to Ted) See, now what did I tell you? TED: What? You told me you were horny. JIMMIE: No, see I've come to realize that a guy can have a good time without having girls all about. TED: That's a sin, you dead fuck! JIMMIE: I really, reall don't want you to call me that anymore. TED: Aww!
Gordon runs up to the kids unpacking the car. Tricia and Tommy follow behind.
SAMANTHA: Hi! What a handsome mutt you are.
TRICIA: His name is Gordon and I'm Trish. SAMANTHA: Hi Trish. TED: Hi. JIMMIE: Hi. 
Mrs. Jarvis stares out the window at her kids meeting the new kids.
JIMMIE: So, uh, you live around here?
SCENE 12. Inside the bathroom, Samantha and Sara do a little girl talking.
SARA: I don't know how you do it.
SAMANTHA: I don't know how you don't. SARA: I mean...you do it with everybody. SAMANTHA: I do not! I do it with Paul. SARA: Really? SAMANTHA: Come on Sara, I mean you know how guys are. They lie about that all the time. They say that about everybody. SARA: They don't say anthing about me. I mean, I don't have... SAMANTHA: Ahhh...a reputation? SARA: I didn't say that! SAMANTHA: Uh-huh! Look, I got my reputation in the 6th grade. SARA: What does Paul think? SAMANTHA: Paul thinks I'm great in bed, so that's where I keep him. SARA: What are the sleeping arrangements here anyway? SAMANTHA: Paul and I are taking the bedroom at the end of the hall, so you and Doug can sleep next door. SARA: (with a worried look) Really? SAMANTHA: Yeah, it's ok, they're bunk beds. Don't worry about it. 
SCENE 13. Tricia and her Mom sit in the living room reading. Tricia closes her book. Mrs. Jarvis reads the paper.
TRICIA: I'm going to bed now, Mom. Good night.
M.JARVIS: Don't forget, six A.M.... TRICIA/M.JARVIS: Once around the lake. TRICIA: Good night. M.JARVIS: Sleep well, honey. TRICIA: You too, Mom.
Tricia goes to her room, Mrs. Jarvis continues to read the newspaper reporting on the Crystal Lake massacre.
SCENE 14. Tommy's in bed half asleep. He opens his eyes and looks out the window. He sees Samantha in the kid's cottage start to take off her clothes in preparation for bed. Tommy gets excited and jumps up and down on the bed. He hears the doorknob turn and quickly pretends he is sleeping. Mrs. Jarvis enters to tuck Tommy in. She looks through the window, walks over and pulls the shade down. She kisses Tommy's forehead and exits the room. Tommy stares at his window shade.
SCENE 15. Bright and early the next morning, the kids make their way down a trail to Crystal Point, a swimming area of Crystal Point, a swimming area of Crystal Lake which has a rope-swing, beach, some boat docks.
JIMMIE: (to Ted) I think when we get into town, I should give Betty a call.
Ted is wearing a Walkman tuned to a rock station and can't hear him.
JIMMIE: Ted? Ted? I think, I think when we get into town, I should call Betty.
TED: (loudly) Jimbo, calling Betty is definitely a dead fuck thing to do.
Everyone turns around at this remark and Ted gets embarassed. He takes his Walkman off.
TED: Look, first rule of love, never get rejected by the same girl twice. I mean that's useless! You wanna make a fool of yourself, do it with someone new.
JIMMIE: Well, I don't know anybody new. TED: Well, sex is a great way to meet them!
As Ted says this, twin teenage sisters on bikes appear in front of the group. They are coming down the hill pretty fast and have to break to avoid running into them. The girls get off their bikes.
TINA/TERRI: Sorry!
PAUL: Don't worry about it. JIMMIE: Hi. TERRI: Hi. JIMMIE: You, uh, girls live around here? PAUL: How far is it to Crystal Point? TINA: Well, that's where we're going. TERRI: Yeah, it's a long walk. TED: We can take it. SARA: I'm going to go get the car. DOUG: Sara, ya want some company? PAUL: (to the twins) Walk this way? TINA/TERRI: Uh-huh. SARA: (to Doug) Thanks I'll just meet you guys there. DOUG: All right. 
Doug watches Sara walk down the path for a moment and then follows the group with the twins leading down another path toward Crystal Point.
TINA: (to Terri about Ted and Jimmie) They're cute!
Ted and Jimmie follow the twins staring at their behinds.
TED: (to Jimmie) Two of them. Count them, one, two...
JIMMIE: Yeah and two of us!
SCENE 16. Sara is walking alone down a path. She realizes that the woods are scary by yourself and begins to get nervous. She hears little noises and constantly checks her surroundings. She thinks she hears something behind her and starts to walk backwards. Sara runs into a tree brach and laughs at herself. She continues down the path.
SCENE 17. The kids are at Crystal Point. Tina jumps on the rope-swing and cannon balls into the water. Ted and Jimmie are standing by the waters edge. Paul uses the swing next.
TINA: (to Ted and Jimmie) C'mon in!
JIMMIE: (embarassed) Oh no, no, we have no suits.
Ted looks at Jimmie. Paul cannon balls into the water. 
TED: All right! All right!
PAUL: Skinny dip!
Paul takes off his shorts and throws them on the shore. Samantha takes off her swimsuit and dives in. Sara gets embarassed and leaves for a dock. The twin sister look at each other, laugh, and go under water. When they come up they throw their swimsuits toward Jimmie and Ted.
Ted takes off his clothes and dives in. Jimmy slowly takes off his. Tricia, Tommy, and Gordon pull up beside the station wagon in the parking space. Gordon jumps out of the car window and heads toward the skinny-dipping kids.
TOMMY: (getting out of the car) Gordon! Wait up!
TRICIA: Gordon! Gordon, wait up! Gordon!
Tommy follows Gordon to the kids and gets an eyeful of naked flash before Tricia shows up and...
TRICIA: Tommy! Turn around! TOMMY: Aw, come on, can't I just... TRICIA: Turn around!
The kids in the water notice them.
DOUG: Trish, c'mon in!
TRICIA: No thanks, I think I'm overdressed! TED: Hey Trish! TRICIA: Bye-bye! TED: Party tonight! TOMMY: C'mon Gordon, we're too young for this.
SCENE 18. Tricia, Tommy, and Gordon are driving back home.
TOMMY: Some pack of patooties, huh?
TRICIA: Tommy...
The car begins to make sputtering noises and Trica pulls over to the side of the road.
TRICIA: Oh no, what's next?
Tommy gets out and has a look at the engine.
TRICIA: Can you fix it?
TOMMY: I need a screwdriver. TRICIA: Maybe there's one in the trunk.
Tommy trots back to the trunk and then to the window.
TOMMY: I need the keys.
Tricia hands Tommy the keys. After a minute or so...
TRICIA: Tommy! C'mon!
SCENE 19. Samantha swims over to the dock Sara is sunbathing on. She climbs halfway on.
SAMANTHA: C'mon in Sara, let's see what ya got!
SARA: (embarassed) No. SAMANTHA: C'mon Sara, strip and dip! SARA: Sam, I said, no! SAMANTHA: Well then, I'm going under and staying under until you do! SARA: (turning away) See ya later! 
Samantha goes underwater. Sara reaches into her backpack for some fruit to snack on. She realizes Samantha has been under for a long time. She starts to panic.
SARA: Sam! Sam! Sam! Sam! Sam! Sam! Sam! 
Samantha floats from underneath the dock and when Sara reaches for her, Samantha grabs her arm and pulls Sara into the water.
SARA: You bitch!
SAMANTHA: You like that? SARA: You bitch! 
SCENE 20. Tommy is fixing the car. He has the hood up and is fooling with the engine.
TOMMY: Turn it on, Trish.
Tricia tries to start the car.
TOMMY: Turn it Trish! 
A hand appears and grabs Tommy's wrist.
ROB: Hi, Rob Dyer. Sorry 'bout that.
As Rob takes off his backpack, Tricia steps out of the car to see what's going on.
TRICIA: (surprised) Oh, hello.
ROB: Hi, what's your problem? TRICIA: (being coy) No problem. ROB: I meant with the car. TRICIA: Oh the car...it won't start. ROB: Well, get in, give it a crank. TOMMY: Lookit, I've tried everything already. The only thing it could be is the cellunoid. If we only had a screwdriver.
Rob whips out a large knife as Tommy stares and puts it at the cellunoid.
ROB: (to Tricia) Ok, give it a crank!
The car starts, Tricia leans out of the window.
TRICIA: You need a lift.
SCENE 21. Tricia, Rob, Tommy, and Gordon are in the car going back to the Jarvis residence.
ROB: I didn't think anyone lived this deep in the woods.
TRICIA: We do. What are you hunting for up here today? ROB: (quickly) Bear. Anybody up at the Lake today? TOMMY: (skeptical) You can't be hunting for bear. ROB: How about kids? There any kids? Vacationers? People like that? TRICIA: Yeah, a bunch of kids moved in yesterday, right next door to us.
The car pulls into the Jarvis driveway.
TRICIA: This is it.
ROB: Thanks for the lift. TOMMY: Gordon! TRICIA: Would you like to come in for a minute? ROB: Oh no, I don't think I can. TOMMY: Oh you gotta come in. I got something real neat to show you in my bedroom.
SCENE 22. Inside the Jarvis house, Mrs. Jarvis is sitting in the living room knitting. Tommy, Rob, and Tricia burst in.
TOMMY: Hi Mom!
Tommy drags Rob upstairs to his room
M.JARVIS: Tommy, who's your friend?
TRICIA: Mom, this is Rob. Rob, this is my mother. ROB: Hello Mrs.... M.JARVIS: Jarvis. 
They watch Tommy drag Rob upstairs. Tommy is a horror movie buff. He makes masks and props and collects memorabilia. Rob looks around his room. He walks over to a hanging mask and feels it.
ROB: Amazing.
Tommy fools around with a tentacle prop and leads Rob over to his bed.
TOMMY: Come here, I want to show you something.
Tommy whips out his latest mask, one that has moving eyes and mouth and shows it to Rob.
TOMMY: (making monster noises) Rrrrrrrrr!
SCENE 23. Night time. Party at the kid's house. Everybody pairs off, drinks beer, kisses. Jimmie walks over to the stereo, puts on a hard rock album, and walks over to Terri.
JIMMIE: Would you care to dance?
TERRI: To this? JIMMIE: This, this is good! TERRI: All right. JIMMIE: Well, good. 
They start to dance. Jimmy looks like he's having a seizure. Everybody laughs and Paul walks over to the stereo and changes the music. He plays a slow, big band number, "Tangerine".
JIMMIE: Hey! How come you turned that off?
PAUL: Relax Jimbo, you're gonna love this.
Paul takes Samantha into his arms and they start to dance. Ted and Tina are on the couch, Ted makes his move.
TED: (pointing to the Teddy Bear she's holding--to Tina) Ya wanna give the ol' Teddy Bear a kiss?
Ted moves too fast and tries to get a kiss. Tina pushes his roving hands away and gets off the couch.
TINA: Teddy, Teddy. I better get another drink.
Samantha leaves Paul to refill her glass, leaving Paul alone at the stereo. Tina runs into him.
TINA: Excuse me.
PAUL: You like this stuff? TINA: You like slow dancing? PAUL: I could learn to.
Samantha shows up and whisks Paul away from the competition.
SAMANTHA: Kiss me, you fool!
PAUL: (imitating Curly) Soitenly! Woo! Woo! JIMMIE: (looking at Terri) Maybe we can dance to this one. TERRI: Sure. TED: (walking up to Tina) C'mon. Let Teddy Bear show you how it's done.
The kids dance to "Tangerine".
SCENE 24. Night time. Tricia and Rob come out of the Jarvis house. They walk down the path a little ways making small talk.
TRICIA: Stay near the trail. It goes all the way around the lake.
ROB: I will. There's only three of you up here?
TRICIA: My parents are seperated. You know, middle-aged crazy. I kinda hope they get back together again.
ROB: Yeah, I hope so too.
TRICIA: Looks like another rainy one, huh? ROB: Yeah. TRICIA: Listen, if it ever gets too bad out there or if you want to take a shower or whatever, we're always home and uh, if we're not, Tommy usually leaves the door open. ROB: (giving Tricia a peck on the cheek) Good night! TRICIA: Take care.
SCENE 25. Jimmie stands in the kitchen when Ted enters looking for a corkscrew.
TED: Hey! How ya doing with yours?
Jimmie doesn't answer. Ted searches the drawers. 
TED: Nowhere, huh?
Ted finds the corkscrew and looks at Jimmie.
JIMMIE: Check!
TED: Ya gotta warm her up. Watch me, do what I do, Jimbo...
Ted puts his hand down his pants, unzips his zipper and sticks a finger out of his fly.
TED: Don't be such a dead fuck!
JIMMIE: I told you, I told you that I didn't like that! Besides, you have the hot one of the two...
Tina walks into the kitchen as Jimmie says this. She sees Ted with his hand down his pants.
TED: (to Jimmie) Check! (noticing Tina-waving hand) Hiya!
JIMMIE: He think's that's funny! He thinks that's a funny thing he's doing!
 
SCENE 26. In the living room, all the kids gather to watch the twins shotgun beer. Paul uses the corkscrew to put a hole in the bottom of the can and hands the beer to Tina.
PAUL: Ready, Tina? Ok, on three.
GROUP: One...two...three!
The sisters shotgun the beer. Tina guzzles her down first as Terri falls into a chair.
PAUL: And the winner is....Tina!
Tina jumps into Paul's arms, much to Samantha's chagrin. Sara, Doug, and Ted stare at her.
TINA: (to Paul) What do I win?
PAUL: What do you want? (Tina points at the stereo) Jimbo, put on another record.
JIMMIE: Jimbo...
TINA: (with arms around Paul-to Samantha) Ya don't mind, do ya?
SAMANTHA: (to Paul) Actually, I was thinking about taking a little swim. It seems to be getting a bit close in here for me.
Samantha walks out of the room. Sara runs after her, but Doug holds her back.
SARA: Sam!
DOUG: Sara, Sara! Let's dance.
SARA: I don't want to dance!
DOUG: Well let's mind our own business, look, I'll talk to Paul, ok?
Tina and Paul start to dance. Ted is sitting on the stairs watching Tina. Jimmie walks to the steps.
JIMMIE: I want to talk to you for a second.
TED: (pointing to Paul) Oh man, I am going to kill him!
JIMMIE: Said I wanted to talk to you for a second.
TED: Not now, dead fuck!
JIMMIE: That's what I wanted to talk to you about.
TED: Do you believe this guy? I mean I had her, she was mine!
JIMMIE: Oh, oh well, you know what I suggest you do about that, uh, Teddy? I think you should run that through your little computer!
Jimmie laughs as Ted stares at him in disbelief.
SCENE 27. Samantha goes out the door and down the path to the shore of the lake. She's taking off her clothes when she hears something behind her.
SAMANTHA: Paul? I know you're out there, Paulie!
She takes the rest of her clothes off and turns around.
SAMANTHA: Paul?...Ok, screw you, Paulie!
Samantha swims out to a rubber raft floating in the lake. She climbs in and looks toward the shore.
SAMANTHA: C'mon, Paul...I know you're out there! Paul? Screw you, Paul! 
Jason pops out from the water, grabbing Samantha and shoving a knife into her back from underneath the raft.
SAMANTHA: AAAHHH!!!
SCENE 28. From the couch, Ted lights a match and stares at it. He looks at Paul and Tina. Paul is having second thoughts about Tina.
TINA: What's the matter?
PAUL: I can't go through with this. I-I'm sorry, I gotta go.
Paul leaves Tina and quickly heads for the door. Tina looks at her sister who makes a motion for her to dance with Jimmie. Tina walks over to Jimmie.
TINA: Ya wanta dance?
JIMMIE: (surprised) Yeah...yeah!
They start to dance, Ted looks at them and looks even more dejected.
JIMMIE: I, uh, thought you wanted to be with Ted?
TINA: Well, I did, but now I wanna be with you.
JIMMIE: This makes me feel really bad. (pauses) Well, do you wanna join them?
TINA: Jimmie...why don't we just go upstairs?
JIMMIE: (nervous laughter) Upstairs? Hahahahaha.
Jimmie shrugs his shoulders at Ted as he and Terri make their way upstairs. Ted can't believe this. He stares at Terri, who, feeling bad for him, sits down next to Ted. Ted tries his pickup line on her.
TED: (pointing to the Teddy Bear she's hugging) That's a Teddy Bear...want to give Teddy Bear a kiss?
Terri turns away and all but laughs in Ted's face.
SCENE 29. Paul comes out of the house and to the shore of the Lake. He sees Samantha in the raft and quicly swims out thinking she's sleeping. When he gets to the boat, he finds out she's dead and let out a scream.
PAUL: Sam!!!
Paul swims back to the shore. When he gets to the dock, he climbs halfway up on it. Jason shoves a speargun deep into his crotch and lifts Paul into the air. Paul howls as Jason releases the spear.
PAUL: AAAHHH!!!
SCENE 30. Rob is at his tent tending a fire when he hears Paul scream. He leaves the site for a check around the perimeter. While he is gone, he can hear noises from the tent. He quickly makes his way back and finds his gun has been broken and his stuff strewn about. Rob stares at the mess.
ROB: Oh, shit!
SCENE 31. Inside the bedroom, Jimmie and Tina get ready to do the wild thing. Jimmie sits on the bed while Tina stands before him, starting to take off her clother.
JIMMIE: This is a neat room.
TINA: This is, ah, you room?
JIMMIE: Naw, actually it's, it's uh, Paul's room.
TINA: You're neat!
Tina jumps on Jimmie and they roll about the bed kissing, suddenly the bed frame breaks and they start laughing. 
SCENE 32. Downstairs, Ted has found an old movie reel and a projector in a closet. He looks at the film and laughs. 
TED: Hey you guys! Look what I found!
Ted has the projector up in the living room. Terri sits beside Ted and on a couch behind them, sit Doug and Sara. The film turns out to be stag movies from the 30's. Everybody except Terri laughs at the women on the film. Terri leaves to find Tina. Nobody notices. 
SCENE 33. Terri goes upstairs and knocks on the bedroom door.
TERRI: (from hallway) Tina, we gotta go.
Tina and Jimmie are under the covers.
TINA: You go!
TERRI: Tina, I'm gonna leave without you!
TINA: Take an umbrella!
Tina looks at Jimmie and smiles. It's raining outside as Terri leaves. She wears a yellow rain slicker. Terri walks off the steps and looks up at the house.
TERRI: You slut!
Terri walks to the bicycles parked underneath a tree in the front yard. She brings the kickstand up as Jason stabs her in the back with a spear. Ted laughs, stoned as the woman dances on screen. Jason throws Terri up against the house.
SCENE 34. Doug and Sara watch the film on the couch behind Ted.
SARA: I'm going upstairs.
DOUG: You tired?
SARA: No...do you mind sleeping on the bottom bunk tonight?
DOUG: Why you wanna sleep on the top?
SARA: No. (she looks at Doug) Give me a few minutes, ok?
Sara gets off the couch and walks over to Ted.
SARA: Good night, Teddy Bear!
TED: (stoned) Good night.
Sara goes upstairs. Ted turns to look at Doug.
TED: Hahahahahahahaha.
DOUG: Stop!
SCENE 35. Mrs. Jarvis comes in from jogging. The lights are off and the house is dark and quiet. Tommy left the door unlocked again.
M.JARVIS: Tommy? I'm gonna towel off and then I'm gonna strangle you.
Mrs. Jarvis walks through the house, trying the lights, and going to the kitchen for a glass of water.
M.JARVIS: Tommy? Trish?
No answer as Mrs. Jarvis walks out of the kitchen and tries the staircase lights. Rain splatters against the windows.
M.JARVIS: Anybody home?
Still no answer as Mrs. Jarvis goes back into the kitchen, pours out her water and heads for the back porch door.
M.JARVIS: Gordon? Where's Tommy? Gordon? Where's Trish? Matter of fact, where the hell are you?
Mrs. Jarvis goes outside, down the porch steps and onto the lawn.
M.JARVIS: Gordon? Gordon? Gordon? Gordon?
She walks right into Jason and looks up at his mask.
SCENE 36. Tommy and Tricia are in the car driving home.
TOMMY: Watch it! Can we slow down a little? The party's gonna go on all night. You almost made me lose my lollipops.
SCENE 37. Inside the bedroom, Sara strips off her clothes and in her bra and panties, puts on a robe and primps in front of the mirror.
SCENE 38. Tommy and Tricia enter the Jarvis residence.
TRICIA: Mom, we're home!
Tricia tries the lights. Nothing.
TRICIA: Mom? (looking at Tommy) Where is she?
TOMMY: I don't know.
TRICIA: Mom? Mom?
Tricia and Tommy go upstairs to Mrs. Jarvis' bedroom.
TRICIA: She's not here.
TOMMY: Maybe she's still jogging.
TRICIA: She'd never be gone this long in the rain! I'm going down the path.
TOMMY: Me too!
TRICIA: You stay here in case she comes back.
TOMMY: I'll go!
TRICIA: Stay here and fix the lights!
SCENE 39. Tricia runs down the path in the rain and finds Rob's tent. She climbs inside to wait for Rob. She sees all his equipment and the newspaper clippings. A shadow of a man appears on the tent wall behind Tricia. A machete comes ripping out and sees Rob standing there, machete raised, ready to strike. 
ROB: What the hell are you doing here?
TRICIA: Whaddya trying to do, kill me?
SCENE 40. Jimmie and Tina are basking in the afterglow of hot teenage sex.
JIMMIE: Tina?
TINA: Hmmmm...
JIMMIE: Aw...never mind.
TINA: Tell me.
JIMMIE: Um...did I...was...um...was ah...was I...Was I a dead fuck?
TINA: (laughing) What?
JIMMIE: A dead fuck/
TINA: No. You ah...you know what I think? You know what I really think? I think you were incredible!
JIMMIE: (laughing)
TINA: Hmmm...I want to do it again!
JIMMIE: Yeah!
TINA: Don't move, I'll be right back!
Tina gets up to go to the bathroom.
SCENE 41. Jimmie comes down the stairs buttoning his shirt. He sees Ted watching the stag film and sits down beside him.
TED: (seeing Jimmy) Oh, hahahaha, check it out!
JIMMIE: Why don't you run this through your little computer, Teddy Bear?
Jimmie hands him Tina's panties. Ted stares at them, laughing.
TED: (slurring) Hey! Congatulations, Jimbo!
JIMMIE: Where's that bottle of wine? Why don't we celebrate?
TED: (slurring) I think...maybe...I'd like that. Hahahahaha.
JIMMIE: Hahaha. I was great!
Jimmie goes into the kitchen to get the wine. Ted quickly forgets about Jimmie and watches the movies stoned and laughing.
JIMMIE: I was great...I was great...love, Teddy Bear...
TED: (watching the film) Hahahahaha.
JIMMIE: L-o-v-e. Hey Ted? Where's...where's that ah...that corkscrew? That fancy corkscrew for the wine bottle? Ted?
TED: (watching the film) Hahahahahaha.
JIMMIE: Hey Ted! Ted! Hey! Hey Ted! Where the hell's the corkscrew?
Jason appears out of the shadows and slams the corkscrew into Jimmie's hand nailing it to the counter. As Jimmie turns around, Jason smashes a meat cleaver into his forehead.
SCENE 42. Tina comes back into the bedroom.
TINA: Jimmie?
Jimmie is gone. Tina wonders where he's at for about two seconds when she notices the two bicycles underneath the tree. She stares out the window for a few moments, wiping the steam off the glass when Jason shoves his arm through the glass and grabs Tina. He brings her toward him and flings her high into the air. She lands on top of the station wagon and slowly crumples to the ground.
SCENE 43. Rob and Tricia are inside the tent.
ROB: My sister Sandra was...a really good kid.
TRICIA: But the man who killed your sister is dead.
ROB: He's alive. Look, (shows her the newspaper clippings) Jason as a child, right? Artists conception of Jason as described by a would be victim, right? And then...the murders.
TRICIA: But, he's dead.
ROB: Jason's body has disappeared from the morgue.
TRICIA: It was stolen.
ROB: It was not stolen! Two people at the hospital are missing...coincidence? He's alive!
TRICIA: Oh my God! Tommy's at the house!
SCENE 44. Tommy enters the basement of the Jarvis house. He uses a flashlight to search for the fusebox. 
SCENE 45. Ted watches the stag films. In the kitchen, Jason wipes a blade free for blood. 
TED: (finds the Teddy bear Terri left) Teddy! (looks at the screen) Oh man!
Ted sees a particulary good looking woman taking a bath in the film. He gets up and staggers to the screen.
TED: So...uh...ya wanna give the ol' Teddy Bear a kiss?
The film in the projector runs and flaps around and around. Ted looks at the bright light.
TED: Jimbo? Jimbo? Hahahahahaha AAAHHH!!!
Jason is behind the movie screen. He shoves the knife into the back of Ted's head through the screen. Ted falls to the ground, blood trailing on the white background.
SCENE 48. Doug and Sara finish making love in the shower. Sara towels off and heads for the bedroom to blowdry her hair.
DOUG: (from inside shower) Sara! I think I'm in heaven!
SARA: (leaning against wall) I think I'm in love.
DOUG: What?
SARA: I'll meet you in the bottom bunk.
DOUG: (singing) Tangerine....
Sara smiles and leaves the bathroom while Doug is singing. Inside the bedroom, she starts to blowdry her hair. She can't hear Doug.
DOUG: (singing) Tangerine...she is...
The lights go off in the bathroom.
DOUG: Sara? Change your mind? Come on, get in here...there's plenty of room, we can sing a duet...
Doug can see a shape approach the shower door.
DOUG: Who is it, Paulie? Paulie? Hey, Paulie is that you? Hey Paulie...whoops dropped my bar of soap, old buddy, gonna have to get in here with me old pal! Hohohoho! AAAHHHH!!!
Jason shoves an arm through the glass shower door and grabs Doug's face with his hand. He caves Doug's face in. Sara finishes drying her hair and walks back to the bathroom. She opens the door.
SARA: I came to hear you sing...so sing!
Sara sees Doug's dead body in the shower. She screams and runs downstairs.
SARA: Sam! AAAHHH!!!! Sam! Sam! Sam! Sam! 
Sara tries to get out of the house through the front door. It won't open. Jason swings an axe through the door and into Sara's chest. She falls to the ground quivering.
SCENE 49. Tommy has fixed the lights and is upstairs. He can hear somebody trying to get in through the front door. He slowly descends the steps as glass breaks and Rob and Tricia enter the Jarvis house.
TRICIA: Tommy! Thank God you're ok! Tommy!
TOMMY: What happened?
TRICIA: Where's Mom? Is she back yet?
TOMMY: No, not yet!
TRICIA: I'm gonna call for help.
TOMMY: Rob, what's going on?
As Tricia tries to phone out, Jason pulls the connecter box from the side of the house.
TRICIA: I'm not getting anything
ROB: I'm gonna go next door.
TRICIA: I'm going with you.
ROB: No!
TRICIA: I'm going with you! Tommy, you stay here, ok? And lock the doors.
ROB: Tommy, hold the fort!
TRICIA: Gordon!
SCENE 50. Rob, Tricia, and Gordon walk over to the kid's cottage. As they step on the porch, they see a huge hole in the front door.
ROB: He's been here!
TRICIA: What if he's still here?
ROB: Here, take this! Take it!
Rob hands Tricia the machete and they enter the house. It's dark and quiet inside save for the projector still running. The power goes off suddenly and the projector shuts down.
ROB: I'm going downstairs. You stay here with Gordon.
TRICIA: No!
ROB: Stay right here with Gordon!
Tricia watches Rob as goes down the basement steps. Gordon trots upstairs.
SCENE 51. Gordon runs upstairs, yelps a couple times and jumps out of the second story window. Tricia hears the glass breaking and goes upstairs. She hears the shower running and heads for the bathroom. Tommy finds the newspaper clippings of the Crystal Lake Massacre inside Rob's backpack. Tricia walks over to the bathroom. The door is open and she peeks inside. She sees the broken glass and the blood on the floor. With her eyes, she follows the bloody trail over to the corner. Doug has been spiked face first into the wall. Tricia screams and runs downstairs.
TRICIA: AAAHHH!!! Rob! He's here! He's here! Rob! Rob! Rob!
SCENE 52. Tricia runs into the basement.
TRICIA: He's here! He's here! He's killed all of them, I know it!
ROB: Ok, come on!
As they go upstairs, one of Rob's legs bust through through a step and is caught.
ROB: Shit! Give me a hand!
He hets his foot out and goes back down the steps. Tricia stays.
ROB: Gotta fix the lights!
TRICIA: No! No! No!
Jason attacks Rob as he looks for the fusebox.
ROB: Oh my God! Oh my God! Run! AAAHHH!!! Run! Run! He's got me! He's killing me! Run Trish! Run! AAAHHH!!! Trish run! AAAHHH!!!
TRICIA: What? AAAHHH!!! What? AAAHHH!!!
SCENE 53. Tricia stares in disbelief. She runs up the stairs and when Rob's voice trails off, she goes back down the stairs to find him. Jason grabs her ankle from underneath the stairs. She uses the machete to get him to let go of her.
TRICIA: AAAHHHH!!! Get off me! AAAHHH!!!
Tricia runs for the front door. As she opens it, Tina's body is laying there. Tricia runs into the kitchen, opens the back door and Jimmie's body is hanging across the door frame. She throws a chair through the window and crawls outside. Tricia runs for the Jarvis house. Tommy hears her scream and runs for the door.
SCENE 54. Tricia enters the Jarvis house.
TRICIA: Tommy! All the doors locked?
TOMMY: Yeah!
TRICIA: Get me a hammer and nails right now!
TOMMY: Is he here?
TRICIA: Yes! (pause) Tommy? Hurry!
Tommy hands Tricia the equipment. She nails the doors shut. Jason comes out of the kid's cottage using the kitchen door. He rips Jimmie's body out of the way. Tricia looks through the window to see if Jason is coming, but it's too dark. After a few moments of quiet, Rob's corpse comes crashing through a picture window in the living room.
TOMMY/TRICIA: AAAHHH!
Tricia goes to look at Rob's body. Jason comes through another window and grabs Tommy.
TOMMY: Tricia, help!
Tricia uses the hammer that was in Rob's head to beat on Jason.
TOMMY: Help me! Help me! Put me down! Put me down!
Tricia uses the claw side of the hammer and shoves it in Jason's neck. He lets go of Tommy and disappears into the darkness. As Tricia and Tommy run for the upstairs, Jason crashes through the front door and throws the hammer at Tricia. It misses and vibrates in the wall.
SCENE 55. Tommy and Tricia enter Tommy's bedroom and lock the door behind them. Tricia points to a large bookcase.
TRICIA: Tommy, Tommy, help me push this!
They push the bookcase against the door and huddle in the middle of the room.
TRICIA: Where is he?
Jason jiggles the door knob.
TRICIA: What is he doing?
Jason swings an axe through the door, pushes the bookcase away, and tries to enter the room. Tricia grab's Tommy's computer monitor and smashes it on Jason's head. He falls motionless on the floor. Tommy and Tricia look at the body through the hole in the door.
TRICIA: I'm going out the back. When he follows, I want you to run like hell, hear me? Run like hell!
Tricia opens the door and lightly steps past Jason's body. Jason grabs the axe and swings it at Tricia. It sticks in the wall.
TOMMY: Trish!
Jason looks at Tommy, then Tricia. She runs downstairs.
TRICIA: Tommy! No!
Jason follows Tricia down the stairs.
TRICIA: AAAHHH!!!
TOMMY: Trish!
SCENE 56. Tricia runs for the kids cottage with Jason close behind. She runs inside the house and up the stairs. Jason follows. She is trapped at the top with nowhere to go. Jason comes close. Tricia jumps through the window, landing on her back on the ground. Jason looks out the window, sees that Tricia is laying motionless and goes back inside. Tricia gets up and heads back for the Jarvis house. Meanwhile, Tommy is cutting his hair to look like Jason in the newspaper clippings. Jason is following Tricia back to the house.
SCENE 57. Tricia enters the Jarvis house. Tommy hears her from upstairs.
TOMMY: Trish?
TRICIA: Tommy? Tommy, you were supposed to leave!
The front door is open and Jason steps inside. Tricia hears him and swings the machete. Tommy quickly shaves his head. Tricia swings the machete at Jason. She wounds him between his fingers. She runs as he stares at the wound.
TRICIA: Tommy! Tommy! Get the hell out of here!
Tricia swings the machete as Jason comes closer.
TRICIA: No! You son-of-a-bitch! I'll give you something to remember me by!
Tricia swings the machete into Jason's chest. It doesn't affect him. She drops the machete. He grabs her and throws her to the floor.
TRICIA: AAAHHH!!!
Tommy comes down the stairs. He calls to Jason.
TOMMY: Jason! Jason!
Jason turns to look at Tommy. He sense something familiar and walks closer to him.
TOMMY: Remember Jason? Jason, don't you remember? Remember Jason? Jason, remember? Remember?
While Jason is preoccupied with Tommy, Tricia picks up the machete and swings it at Jason's head as he is turning to face her. It knocks the hockey mask off revealing his hideous face. Tricia is horrified and she drops the machete to the floor. Tommy jumps off the steps and onto the floor picking up the machete. Jason hears him and turns to face Tommy. Tommy buries the machete into Jason's head. Jason falls to his knees and then forward, landing on the machete and sliding down the blade.
TRICIA: AAAHHH!!!
Tommy and Tricia hug in the middle of the room.
TRICIA: Tommy?
TOMMY: Shhhhh!
As they are hugging, Tommy looks at the body of Jason Voorhees. The fingers are moving slightly. Tommy pushes Tricia away and attacks the body with the machete.
TRICIA: Tommy! Tommy! Tommy! Tommy!
TOMMY: Die! Die! Die! Die!
SCENE 58. Tricia is laying in a hospital bed. A doctor and a policeman are talking to her.
DOCTOR: The shoulder will need some surgery, but we can wait till she's a better candidate.
COP: Now you just get a good rest, young lady.
TRICIA: You haven't answered my question. Neither one of you is answering my question.
DOCTOR: Often during extreme distress, people are capable of extraordinary behavior...that's what happened when your brother violently attacked the killer. At that moment, it was perfectly normal for him to act to protect himself. He's going to be just fine. But, what you need right now is some rest.
TRICIA: Can I see my brother now?
DOCTOR: Sure but only for a minute...I'll send him in.
Tommy stands in the doorway, he runs to his sister for a hug.
TRICIA: Oh, Tommy!
As Tommy and Tricia hug, a serene, peaceful, and almost evil look appears in Tommy's eyes.
END
 
