In Portland, Oregon, a wealthy man, Andrew Marsh, has died, while apparently viewing a homemade pornographic tape.
The police suspect that the woman having sex with Marsh in the film, Rebecca Carlson (Madonna), may have murdered her older lover for personal gain.
Her lawyer is Frank Dulaney (Willem Dafoe), a happlily married man.

Rebecca claims to have been unaware that Marsh had a heart condition or that he had altered his will, leaving her a large sum of money.
District attorney Robert Garrett (Joe Mantegna) believes that she, aware of both facts, deliberately induced a heart attack in the victim with vigorous sexual activity.

Rebecca is arrested and charged with the crime.
Released on bail, she justifies her sex life to Frank, who goes home and has passionate sex with his wife (Julianne Moore).

As the trial begins, DA Garrett tells the jury that it is of no consequence if it was Rebecca's sexual prowess which killed Marsh; what matters is whether she intended to murder him.
Frank argues that the state's case is ludicrous, that "it is not a crime to be a beautiful woman who falls in love with a wealthy older man."

Frank is clearly lusting after Rebecca, who allows him to see her naked while she is receiving acupuncture and flirts with him before spurning his advances.
Eventually, the two embark on a sadomasochistic affair.

During their first sexual encounter, Frank notices too late that Rebecca is tying his arms behind his back using his own belt, telling Frank that they will have sex "my way."
Rebecca teases and torments him by pouring hot candle wax onto his chest, stomach, and finally his penis, amused and aroused by his reactions.

Their rough sex, with Rebecca in complete control, is an obvious counterpoint to their relationship in the courtoom, where Frank is the one in control.
The next morning, while showering, Frank is shocked by how obvious the burn marks from the wax are on his skin.
He rushes to cover them before his wife notices.

A key witness for the prosecution, Marsh's doctor, Alan Paley (Jürgen Prochnow), is revealed in court by Frank to be an extremely unreliable witness, as he was (apparently) trying to blackmail Rebecca into having a sexual relationship with him.
Pleased with Frank's performance in court, Rebecca allows him to perform oral sex on her in an underground carpark.

The testimony of Marsh's private secretary, Joanne Braslow (Anne Archer), reveals that she also had a sexual relationship with Marsh that could have contributed to his death, casting a reasonable doubt as to Carlson's guilt.

A new witness, unexpected by Frank, proves extremely damaging to the defence.
Jeffery Roston (Frank Langella), a wealthy older man with a bad heart just like Marsh, testifies that he had a relationship with Rebecca during which he made her the primary beneficiary in his will.
When asked to describe their sex life, Roston states that Rebecca would always force him to have sex "her way" and on one occasion had tied him to the bed with his belt.
Roston claims that after he had heart surgery and was well again, Rebecca abruptly left, with no explanation.

Frank and Rebecca clash angrily after the testimony in court.
Frank goes to meet his wife at a restaurant, only to discover that she is aware of his affair.
He tries to lie, but learns Rebecca phoned his wife, who also has noticed the burn marks on his body.

Frank rushes to confront Rebecca at her house.
Initially she claims that she called because she wanted to know if Frank still intended to represent her.
Rebecca then taunts him with certain things she could have told his wife, including advice on her sex life.
Frank shoves Rebecca to the ground.
She opens her robe, revealing her half naked body, and begins to masturbate.
Frank cannot resist, but when Rebecca tries to handcuff Frank, he manacles her wrists to the bedpost, then sodomizes her.

Having found evidence which indicates that Joanne Braslow might have murdered Marsh because of jealousy over Rebecca's relationship with him, Rebecca insists that Frank allow her to testify on her own behalf.
Frank relents.

Rebecca's testimony convinces the jury, who acquit her.
Before leaving court, she mockingly thanks her attorney for getting a guilty client off, fully aware that he cannot repeat what she said.

Frank goes that night to Rebecca's home, where he finds her with Alan Paley, discussing the manner in which they conspired to kill Marsh, with Paley as a "reverse character witness" (he makes her look guilty, only to have his testimony completely undermined).
Rebecca bluntly tells Frank and Paley that she used her sexual prowess to get whatever she wanted from both of them, as well as Marsh.

Now free and clear because she cannot be tried for the same crime twice, Rebecca proceeds to taunt Paley, telling him to leave because "I've forgotten you already."
An enraged Paley lashes out at her and, after Frank pulls him off, Paley shoots her twice.
She plunges from a window to her death.