A flying saucer approaches the Earth, eventually landing on the President's Park Ellipse in Washington, D.C.
The military quickly encircles the spaceship.
A humanoid (Michael Rennie) emerges from the saucer, announcing that he has come in peace.
However, when he advances and unexpectedly opens a small cylindrical device, he is shot by a nervous soldier.
Gort, a large robot, emerges and disintegrates all weapons using a ray emanating from its now-open head visor.
Gort is eventually ordered by the emissary to halt.
The wounded being later explains that the object was just a gift for the President, with which "he could have studied life on the other planets."

He is taken to Walter Reed Hospital, where he reveals his name: Klaatu.
He stuns his Army doctors when his salve quickly heals him.
Meanwhile, the military attempts to enter the spaceship, but finds it impenetrable.
Gort stands by, silent and unmoving.

Klaatu tells the President's secretary, Mr. Harley (Frank Conroy), that he bears a message so momentous that it must be revealed to all the world's leaders simultaneously.
Harley tells him that it is impossible.
Then, when Klaatu suggests that he get to know ordinary humans to better understand their suspicions and attitudes, Harley rejects his proposal and leaves Klaatu under armed guard.

Klaatu escapes and lodges at a boarding house, assuming the alias "Mr. Carpenter", the name on a cleaners' tag on the suit he "borrowed."
Among the residents are World War II widow Helen Benson (Patricia Neal) and her son Bobby (Billy Gray).
At breakfast the next morning, during alarming radio broadcasts about the alien, Klaatu listens to his fellow boarders' suspicions and speculations about the alien's purpose in coming to Earth.

While Helen and her boyfriend, Tom Stephens (Hugh Marlowe), go on a day trip, Klaatu babysits Bobby.
The boy takes Klaatu on a tour of the city, including a visit to his father's grave in Arlington National Cemetery, where Klaatu is dismayed to learn that most of those buried there were killed in wars.
The two visit the heavily guarded spaceship and the Lincoln Memorial.
Klaatu asks Bobby who the greatest person living is.
Bobby suggests Professor Jacob Barnhardt (Sam Jaffe), who lives in the city.
Bobby takes Klaatu to Barnhardt's home, but the professor is absent.
Klaatu adds a mathematical equation to a problem on Barnhardt's blackboard, and leaves his contact information with the suspicious housekeeper.

Later, government agents escort Klaatu to see Barnhardt.
Klaatu warns the professor that the people of the other planets have become concerned for their own safety after human beings developed atomic power.
Klaatu declares that, if his message goes unheeded, "planet Earth will be eliminated".
Barnhardt agrees to arrange a meeting of scientists at Klaatu's ship and suggests that Klaatu give a demonstration of his power.
Klaatu asks Barnhardt, " You have faith ?"
Barnhardt replies, " It isn't faith that makes good science, Mr Klaatu, it's curiosity ".
Klaatu returns to his spaceship the next evening, unaware that Bobby has followed him.

Bobby tells Helen and Tom what has transpired, but not until Tom finds a diamond on the floor of Klaatu's room do they begin to believe him.
When Tom takes the diamond for appraisal, the jeweller informs him it is unlike any other on Earth.

Klaatu finds Helen at her workplace.
She leads him to an unoccupied elevator which mysteriously stops at noon, trapping them together.
Klaatu admits he is responsible, reveals his true identity, and asks for her help.
A montage sequence shows that Klaatu has neutralized all electric power around the planet except in situations that would compromise human safety, such as hospitals and aircraft in flight.

After the thirty-minute blackout ends, the manhunt for Klaatu intensifies and Tom informs authorities of his suspicions.
Helen breaks up with Tom.
Helen and Klaatu take a taxi to Barnhardt's home; en route, Klaatu instructs Helen that, should anything happen to him, she must tell Gort three words.
After being spotted by the military, Klaatu is shot and killed; Helen then heads to his spaceship.
Gort awakens and disintegrates the two guards; as Helen approaches, he raises his visor once again, but she says "Klaatu barada nikto".
Gort carries her into the saucer, then leaves to reclaims Klaatu's body.
Gort revives Klaatu.
Klaatu explains that his revival is only temporary; even his advanced technology cannot defeat death, that power being reserved for the "Almighty Spirit".
[3]

Klaatu addresses the assembled scientists, explaining that humanity's penchant for violence and first steps into space have caused concern.
He warns that, if the people of Earth threaten to extend their violence into space, "the Earth will be reduced to a burned out cinder...the decision rests with you.
We will be waiting for your answer."
Klaatu and Gort depart in the saucer.