Willie T. Stokes and Marcus are professional heistmen, that take on the Santa Claus routine for the children at a different shopping mall every year as a front for the opportunity to disable the mall security system, clean out the safe, and then flee on Christmas Eve.
Willie is an alcoholic, a sex addict and is getting gradually unable to perform the Santa routine much to Marcus' dismay.
This year, Willie and Marcus are hired at a mall in Phoenix, Arizona and Willie's vulgar remarks shock the prudish mall manager Bob Chipeska who brings Willie to the attention of security chief Gin Slagel.
At a bar, Willie initiates a passionate love affair by charming bartender Sue, who has a Santa fetish.

During his shift as Santa, Willie is visited by Thurman, an exceedingly naive, overweight boy, who believes Willie is actually Santa and is the target of taunts from a skateboarding gang.
When Willie is in the parking lot, he is attacked by a man (Ajay Naidu) who watched him in the bar insisting he is not gay; Thurman believing Santa needs his assistance intervenes, and the man not wanting to expose the kid to adult matters, leaves.

Willie gives Thurman a ride home, answering Thurman's endless questions, and walks into the boy's affluent house living with just his very senile grandmother.
Thurman reveals that his mother passed away, and his father is away "exploring mountains" (when he is actually in jail for embezzlement).
As Thurman has no suspicion that Willie is not Santa, makes no resistance when Willie breaks into the house safe and takes his father's BMW.

When Bob overhears Willie having anal sex with a woman in a mall dressing room, informing Gin sets him investigating.
When Willie goes to his motel room and sees someone ransacking his room, he inquires a bystanding prostitute as to who is in his room and she suggests a cop.
Willie then takes advantage of Thurman's naivety and takes residence in his house claiming that "Mrs. Santa caught me fucking her sister" enduring Thurman's relentless barrage of questions and breaking down in verbal abuse to a never offended Thurman.

Marcus berates Willie for taking advantage of a kid, and states his disapproval of Willie's "serial fornicating" and "trying to float my liver silly because I can't stand what a piece of shit I am".
When woken up by Thurman screams after cutting his hand, its later revealed to be from carving a wooden pickle, which he later gives to Willie and Sue when lovemaking, referring to her as Mrs. Santa's sister.

Gin's investigation of Willie includes visiting Thurman's imprisoned father, revealing that Willie's staying there illegally.
Thurman visits Willie during his shift with a wedgie from the skateboard gang and changes his request of a stuffed elephant, to a gorilla, when Gin arrives, taking them to a bar and reveals his figuring out of the con scheme to the two with blackmailing them for a half cut to keep silence.
When Thurman visits Willie sitting in the BMW in Thurman's garage running the engine to commit death by inhaling vehicle exhaust fumes, Willie gives Thurman a letter to give to the police, confessing all his misdeeds when noticing Thurman's black eye jumpstarts him to make an example of the skateboard's de facto leader to the rest of them.
A renewed sense of purpose for Willie has him attempt to train Thurman in boxing along with Marcus only end with all three of them lying on the ground, struck in the groin.
Marcus and his wife set up a trap for Gin, feigning needing a jumpstart for their vehicle from Gin's in order to ram Gin, murdering him.

On Christmas Eve, when the heist is almost complete, Marcus reveals to Willie that he intends to finish him off, fed up with his increasing carelessness when the police swarm them, tipped off by the letter Willie gave to Thurman, when Willie, regretting extensively abusing Thurman, is determined to deliver his stuffed elephant.
When Marcus opens fire, drawing police fire, Willies flees leading the police on a chase to Thurman's house, ignoring police request to freeze ends with him repeatedly shot on the porch.

The epilogue is told through a letter from Willie, that Thurman's giving the police the letter cleared his name, that shooting a Santa embarrassed the police with all the bullets missing his vital organs except his liver which he notes was already damaged and that Sue is granted guardianship over Thurman and his house.
When Thurman goes out to ride his bike, he kicks the skateboard gang's leader in the groin correcting his misbelief that the bike belongs to him, and Thurman rides off, with the middle finger over his shoulder and ending in a titlecard, dedicated to John Ritter, referencing his recent passing away.