Alexander "Alex" Frederick Corvis (Eric Mabius) is falsely framed for the murder of his girlfriend Lauren Randall (Jodi Lyn O'Keefe), who was brutally stabbed 53 times by corrupt cops.
Three years later, he is executed in the electric chair.
Soon after the execution, Alex is resurrected by a mystical crow and gifted with supernatural abilities, so he can clear his name and avenge Lauren's death.
He peels off the burned flesh from his face, revealing his crow appearance.
Alex follows the crow to the Salt Lake City police department's evidence room, where he discovers that Lauren was killed by a group of corrupt cops.
Alex has a vision of one of the killers, who has a scar on his arm matching one he saw just before his execution.
Alex finds the knife that was used on Lauren, and then goes to her grave.
There, he meets with Lauren's sister Erin (Kirsten Dunst), who believes he is guilty.
He tells her that he'll prove his innocence somehow, and disappears.

Alex finds Tommy Leonard (David Stevens), the man who was paid to lie about Alex at the trial.
Tommy tells Alex that the cops who murdered Lauren were Madden (Bruce McCarthy), Martin Toomey (Tim DeKay), James Erlich (Dale Midkiff), Stan Roberts (Walton Goggins), and Phillip Dutton (Bill Mondy).
Alex spares Tommy's life.
Later, Dutton pulls over two women, and tries to sexually harass the driver and the passenger.
Suddenly, he sees Alex sitting where the passenger was.
Alex looks for the scar, and doesn't find it.
Alex shoots Dutton in the head, and stabs him 53 times, killing him.
Erin watches the news and sees Dutton's corpse on the screen, with the name "Daisy" cut into his head.
This is Alex's sign to Erin, because Daisy was Lauren's nickname for Erin.

Alex finds Erlich leaving an apartment in his Corvette.
Alex kicks through Erlich's window and searches his arm for the scar, but doesn't find it.
Alex drives the Corvette into the side of an abandoned bus, and blows it up with Erlich laying bloodied on the hood of the car.
Alex inadvertently drops the list of names of the cops he's after, and Roberts and Toomey find it.
Later, Alex gives Erin a piece of paper found in Erlich's car, and Erin now believes that Alex is innocent.
She then finds out that her father, Nathan Randall (William Atherton) is in business with the corrupt cops who killed Lauren, and was thus indirectly responsible for her death.
Nathan swears he did not intend for Lauren to die, but Erin nevertheless runs from him in horror.
At the same time, Roberts and Madden murder Tommy and his family.

Alex meets with his lawyer, Peter Walsh (Grant Shaud), and they talk about Lauren's death.
Alex goes to the place where Lauren died and talks to her.
Erin goes home, and finds Nathan dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.
Later, Walsh tells Alex that Nathan owns a company called Westwind Building, which owns D.E.R.T., a company that owns about a dozen other companies.
Tommy used to make daily deliveries to the Key Club, a strip bar owned by D.E.R.T., and Walsh tells Alex that a place like that is about unreported cash; things like money from drugs.
Lauren discovered what they were doing when she witnessed John, the police captain (Fred Ward), killing a man at the Key Club.
John had his men kill Lauren.
Erin barges into Walsh's apartment, telling Alex that Nathan is dead.

Alex goes to the Key Club.
Madden and John meet Erin at Walsh's apartment, and explain to her about Nathan.
Erin gets John's gun and aims it at him, but John gets his gun back.
Madden kills Walsh, and John kidnaps Erin.
Alex starts a big shootout at the Key Club and fatally impales Roberts with a pipe he breaks off the ceiling, kills the remaining police, then grabs Toomey and checks his arm for the scar, but doesn't find it on either of their arms.
Madden shows up, and tries to kill Alex.
Madden accidentally shoots a pipe, which ignites a gas leak; the explosion kills Toomey.
Alex walks out of the fire and sees an arm hanging out of the rubble with the scar on it.
Alex then leaves the rubble and watches a woman while having a flashback but her jealous boyfriend hits him.

The next day, the rubble is examined, and a burned skeleton forearm can be found — with pieces of metal scattered about.
It turns out that this was all a forgery and that the real scarred arm remains at large.
Alex goes back to Walsh's apartment.
It's empty, but he finds a hint placed by Walsh which leads him to John.
He goes to the police station and confronts John.
After a few words, Alex brandishes the knife responsible for killing Lauren, preparing to kill John.
However, his regeneration ability is apparently not working anymore, as he "fulfilled his duty" after finding the arm with the scar (i.e.
the arm of the one he is after), and he is no match for the Captain, who stabs Alex several times with the knife, while verbally abusing him and attempting to convince Alex that Alex alone murdered his own girlfriend.
Before Alex dies, he starts to believe he is the one who murdered Lauren.
Madden, the Captain, and the Captain's secretary (Kelly Harren) pull Alex into John's taxidermy room, where Erin is tied up with her mouth stitched shut, wearing the locket that connects her to Alex.
The crow picks the locket up and drops it next to Alex, who comes back to life again.
Alex sets Erin free, and she runs out with John in pursuit.
Alex kills Madden by throwing him into a glass trophy case that cuts his throat.
Alex then sees Walsh's body hanging from the ceiling, his arm cut off.
Alex then kills John's secretary by throwing her against the wall, impaling her on a set of mounted antlers.

The Captain gets Erin into a car and drives away, and Alex reaches the roof of the police building and jumps off onto the car.
Alex punches through the car's glass roof, grabs John's arm, and rolls up the sleeve.
Confirming his suspicion, Alex notices the scar on the Captain's left arm.
Alex and Erin then take the Captain to the prison's death chamber and strap John into the same electric chair that Alex died in.
John says he'll come back like Alex and vows to kill them both.
Erin pulls the switch, and they leave John to suffer in the chair, burning long after he is dead.
Alex and Erin walk outside, and Alex disappears in a whirlwind.
Erin, who apparently came to visit the graves of both Alex and her sister, puts the necklace that bonded her and Alex on his headstone before leaving as she explains her renewed sense of mortality in a voice-over.