Bob Wiley is a good-natured man who suffers from multiple phobias.
He feels good about the results of an initial session with Dr. Leo Marvin, a New York psychiatrist with a huge ego, but is immediately left on his own with a copy of Leo’s new book, Baby Steps, when the doctor goes on vacation to Lake Winnipesaukee, New Hampshire.
Unable to cope, Bob follows Leo to his vacation home.
Leo is annoyed because he doesn't see patients on vacation.
Seeing how desperate Bob is, Leo gives Bob a prescription telling him to take a vacation from his problems.
Bob seems to have made a breakthrough, but the next morning shows up and says that he decided to take a vacation both in spirit and in fact, and that he is a guest of the Guttmans, a couple who own a coffee shop and hold a grudge against Leo because he purchased the home they had been scrimping and saving for years to buy.

Bob suggests that they start a friendship, although Leo thinks being friends with a patient is inappropriate and attempts to avoid any further contact, but Bob gets along fine with the rest of Leo’s family, who think Bob may have some foibles but is otherwise a balanced, sociable man.
Leo’s children Anna and Sigmund find that Bob relates well to their problems, in contrast with their father’s clinical approach, while Bob begins to gain an enjoyment of life from his association with them.
Bob goes sailing with Anna and helps Sigmund to dive into the lake, which Leo was unable to help him with.
Leo then angrily pushes Bob into the lake and Leo’s wife, Fay, insists on inviting Bob to dinner to apologize—although Bob thinks Leo’s slights against him have been accidental.
At dinner, Bob's comment on Baby Steps causes Leo to choke, and Bob saves his life by repeatedly and violently landing his full weight on the doctor's prostrated form.
A thunderstorm then forces Bob to spend the night.
Leo wants Bob out of the house by 6:30.
But the crew of Good Morning America shows up early and suggest that having Bob on the show would publicize Baby Steps.
Leo stumbles during the interview and manages to make a fool of himself while Bob is relaxed, speaking glowingly of Leo and the book and steals the limelight.

Outraged, Leo throws a tantrum and then attempts to have Bob committed, but Bob is soon released after befriending the staff of the institution and demonstrating his sanity by telling psychology themed jokes.
Forced to retrieve him, Leo then abandons Bob in the middle of nowhere, but Bob quickly gets a ride back to Leo’s house while a variety of mishaps delay Leo until nightfall.
Leo is then surprised by the birthday party that Fay has been secretly planning for him, and he is delighted to see his beloved sister Lily.
But when Bob appears and puts his arm around Lily, Leo becomes completely enraged and attacks him.
Bob remains oblivious to Leo’s hostility, and Fay explains that Leo has been acting unacceptably as a result of an inexplicable grudge against Bob, and she reluctantly asks him to leave; Bob sadly agrees.
Meanwhile, Leo breaks into a sporting goods store, stealing a shotgun and 20 pounds of explosives.
Bob becomes terrified while walking through the dark woods and is easily kidnapped at gunpoint by Leo, who straps the explosives to Bob and ties him up, calling it "death therapy."
Using Leo’s "Baby Steps" approach, Bob manages to free himself; he reunites with Leo and his family out on the vacation home’s dock as the explosives destroy the house.
This leaves Leo in a catatonic state.

Some time later, Leo is brought to Lily and Bob’s wedding.
Upon their pronouncement as husband and wife, Leo regains his senses and screams, "No!"
but the sentiment is lost in the family’s excitement at his recovery.