The film opens with a scene of Sebastian Valmont in a therapist's office.
He claims to his therapist, Dr. Greenbaum (Swoosie Kurtz), that she has helped him to resolve his issues with sex and that he will no longer be a womanizer.
As he leaves, Dr. Greenbaum receives a call from her daughter (Tara Reid), who is hysterical.
The girl's boyfriend dumped her, and she soon discovered that he had posted a nude picture of her (with captions referring to her mother's recent bestseller on child-rearing) online.
Greenbaum realizes that Sebastian is the culprit.
She screams at him from her office window, but he feigns oblviousness--using the attention Greenbaum drew to chat with an attractive young woman.

The next scene occurs in the sitting room of a very upscale New York City mansion.
The wealthy and popular Kathryn Merteuil (Gellar) is discussing her prep school with Mrs. Caldwell (Christine Baranski) and Caldwell's daughter Cecile (Selma Blair).
Kathryn promises Mrs. Caldwell that she will take the sheltered and naive Cecile Caldwell under her wing, assuring the mother that Kathryn's guidance will turn Cecile into a model student.
Sebastian enters and Mrs. Caldwell reacts to him coldly.
He makes a sexual innuendo to Cecile, who is ignorant of his meaning.
Incensed, Mrs. Caldwell leaves with the girl.
Kathryn reveals that her real intention is to use Cecile to indirectly take revenge on Court Reynolds, her ex-lover, who had dumped her for Cecile.
Kathryn asks her step-brother Sebastian to seduce Cecile; he refuses as he is planning to seduce virgin Annette Hargrove (Witherspoon), the daughter of their school's upcoming headmaster.
Annette is a 'paradigm of chastity and virtue' who has been temporarily staying with Helen Rosemond, Sebastian's aunt.
Bedding Annette would be a coup as a teen magazine had recently published an essay she wrote about Sexual abstinence.
Doubting Sebastian's chance of success, they make a wager: If Kathryn wins, she gets Sebastian's vintage 1956 Jaguar XK140 roadster; if Sebastian wins, Kathryn will allow him to "put it anywhere" (an oblique reference to anal sex).
Sebastian agrees.
It is mentioned that Sebastian keeps a journal detailing his conquests.

Sebastian's seduction of Annette fails, as she had already been told of his bad reputation.
He vents his frustrations to his friend and classmate Blaine (Joshua Jackson), who suggests that the informant might be Blaine's current lover, Annette's ex-boyfriend Greg (Eric Mabius).
Sebastian then conspires with Blaine to blackmail the closeted jock.
When Sebastian confronts Greg (and has photographic evidence of Greg's homosexuality), the boy denies that he warned Annette.
Greg agrees to find out who did, and Sebastian also orders him to laud Sebastian as a misunderstood but truly virtuous young man.
Later Greg and Annette go to the beach, where he gushes about Sebastian and--under the guise of looking out for his admirable friend--discovers the culprit.
Cecile's mother, Mrs. Caldwell, who met Annette at her school, has already warned Annette of Sebastian's reputation for womanizing.
Wanting revenge on the Caldwells, Sebastian tells Kathryn he will now seduce Cecile.

Cecile's music teacher, Ronald Clifford (Sean Patrick Thomas) is in love with her.
Cecile confesses this to Kathryn.
Kathryn tells Cecile's mother about Ronald and Cecile's romance and Mrs. Caldwell intervenes in her daughter's relationship.
Sebastian, in turn, calls Cecile to his house, ostensibly to give her a letter from Ronald.
Sebastian blackmails Cecile and performs oral sex on her.
The next day, Cecile confides in Kathryn, who advises her to learn the art of sex from Sebastian so that she can make Ronald happy in bed.

Sebastian falls in love with Annette, who returns his feelings but still resists him.
Sebastian calls her a hypocrite because she claims to be waiting for her one true love, but when her one true love chooses to love her back, she resists.
She relents, but Sebastian refuses her, confused about his feelings colliding with his stolid sexuality.
Annette flees to her friend's parents' estate.
Sebastian tracks her down, professes his love, and makes love to her.
As he has won the bet, Kathryn offers herself to Sebastian the next day, but he refuses; he now wants Annette only.
Kathryn taunts him and threatens to ruin Annette's reputation, so Sebastian pretends indifference to Annette and coldly breaks up with her.

After Sebastian tells Kathryn that he has broken up with Annette and arranged for Cecile and Ronald to be together, Kathryn reveals that she has known all along that he was truly in love with Annette and manipulated him into giving her up.
She then rejects him.
Sebastian leaves, and Kathryn calls Ronald to inform him that Sebastian had hit her.
Sebastian confronts Annette, but she refuses his apologies; he sends her his journal, in which he has detailed all of Kathryn's maneuvers and written his true feelings for Annette.
When Sebastian starts heading home, Ronald confronts him in the middle of the street and a fight ensues.
Annette runs out and tries to stop it.
She is thrown into the way of an oncoming cab.
Sebastian pushes her to safety and is hit by the speeding cab himself.
Before he dies, Sebastian and Annette profess their love for each other.

At Sebastian's funeral, Cecile distributes copies of Sebastian's journal, made into a book by Annette, titled "Cruel Intentions".
Kathryn is humiliated and rejected by her former friends, and she is defamed for the cocaine hidden in her cross necklace.
Annette drives away in Sebastian's Jaguar with his journal at her side as fond memories of Sebastian play through her head.
[2]