West Texas in June 1980 is desolate, expansive country, and Ed Tom Bell (Tommy Lee Jones) laments the increasing violence in a region where he, like his father and grandfather before him, has risen to the office of sheriff.

Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin), hunting pronghorn, comes across the aftermath of a drug deal gone awry: several dead men and dogs, a wounded Mexican begging for water, and two million dollars in a satchel that he takes to his trailer home.
Later that night, he returns with water for the dying man but is chased away by two men in a truck and abandons his vehicle.
When he gets back home he grabs the cash, sends his wife Carla Jean (Kelly Macdonald) to her mother, and makes his way to a motel in the next county[22] where he hides the satchel in the air vent of his room.

Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem) is a hitman who has been hired to recover the money.
He has already strangled a sheriff's deputy to escape custody and stolen a car by using a captive bolt pistol to kill the driver.
Now he carries an electronic receiver that, tuned to the same frequency as a tracking device concealed inside the satchel, leads him to the money.
Bursting into Moss's motel room at night, Chigurh surprises a group of Mexicans set to ambush Moss, and murders all of them.
Moss, who has since rented the connecting room on the other side, is one step ahead.
By the time Chigurh removes the vent cover with a dime, Moss is already back on the road with the cash.

In a border town hotel, Moss finally finds the electronic bug, but not before Chigurh is upon him.
A firefight between them spills onto the streets, leaving both men wounded.
Moss flees across the border, collapsing from his injuries before he is taken to a Mexican hospital.
There, Carson Wells (Woody Harrelson), another hired operative, offers protection in return for the money.

After Chigurh cleans and stitches his own wounds with stolen supplies, he gets the drop on Wells back at his hotel and kills him just as Moss calls the room.
Picking up the call and casually raising his feet to avoid the spreading blood, Chigurh promises Moss that Carla Jean will go untouched if he gives up the money.
Moss remains defiant.

Moss arranges to meet his wife at a motel in El Paso to give her the money and send her out of harm's way; instead, she reluctantly accepts protection for her husband from Bell.
The sheriff reaches the rendezvous only in time to see a pickup carrying several Mexicans speeding away from the motel; Moss lies dead in his room.
That night, Bell returns to the crime scene and finds the lock blown out in his suspect's familiar style.
Chigurh hides behind the door of a motel room, observing the shifting light through an empty lock hole.
His gun drawn, Bell enters Moss's room and notices that the vent cover has been removed with a dime and the vent is empty.

Bell visits his Uncle Ellis (Barry Corbin), an ex-lawman.
Bell plans to retire because he feels "overmatched," but Ellis points out that the region has always been violent.
For Ellis, thinking it is "all waiting on you, that's vanity."

Carla Jean returns from her mother's funeral to find Chigurh waiting in her bedroom.
When she tells him she does not have the money, he recalls the pledge he made to her husband that could have spared her.
The best he will offer is a coin toss for her life, but she says that the choice is his.
Chigurh leaves the house, alone, and carefully checks the soles of his boots.
As he drives through town, he is injured in a car accident and limps away from his damaged vehicle.

Now retired, Bell shares two dreams with his wife (Tess Harper), both involving his deceased father.
In the first dream, he lost "some money" that his father had given him.
In the second, he and his father were riding horses through a snowy mountain pass; his father, who was carrying fire in a horn, quietly rode by with his head down, "going on ahead, and fixin' to make a fire" in the surrounding dark and cold.
Bell knew that when he got there his father would be waiting.
Then he woke up.