On a sunny early autumn day in an affluent suburb in Connecticut, Ned Merrill (Burt Lancaster), a seemingly successful, appealing and popular middle-aged advertising executive, clad only in swimming trunks, runs through the forest.
He walks out of the woods and into the backyard of some old friends sitting by their swimming pool.
He chats with them, then he has a sudden idea: he tells his friends he intends to "swim" home across the county by dropping in on friends' swimming pools which form a consecutive chain leading back to his house.
He dives into the pool, emerges at the other end and starts his journey.

At first Ned gets warm welcomes as he meets old friends, mostly upper middle-class, well-to-do people with homes in the upscale outer suburbs.
However, there are hints that Ned has been away for up to two years, and he brushes off any questions about himself.
Each stop brings him face to face with some aspect of his life.
The first one is with his youth when anything was possible, while the last one exposes the current collapse of his family life and where everything seems lost.

As the day wears on and Ned sees those who have been closer to him more recently, the welcomes begin to sour.
Ned's proud boasts about his wife, daughters and home are met with strong mixed feelings, jeers, suspicion and even anger - especially from women.
In one backyard Ned meets a 20-year-old girl (Janet Landgard) who, years ago, had babysat his daughters.
She leaves with him, at first thrilled to do so owing to an unspoken crush she had for him in her early teens.
But when Ned rather clumsily tries to woo and kiss her, she flees.
He carries on with his "swim," dropping by the pools of sundry other friends as it slowly unfolds that his life has somehow gone quite wrong.
He crashes a party at one pool.
Although his presence there is tolerated for a while, Ned is thrown out when he has an outburst after spotting a hot dog wagon he had once bought for his daughters, but which had recently been sold in a white elephant sale.
He then shows up at the backyard pool of Shirley Abbott (Janice Rule), a stage actress with whom he'd had an affair several years earlier.
She is still feeling bitter and hurt.
When Ned tries to rekindle things, this poolside meeting ends badly for both of them.

As the day ends, Ned winds up in a crowded public swimming pool where he is shamed by local shopkeepers to whom he still owes money for unpaid grocery and restaurant tabs.
When some of them comment about his wife's overall snobbish attitude and his out-of-control daughters' recent troubles with the law, he angrily flees.
As the sun goes down, a shivering Ned at last staggers up a rocky hill, shoves open a rusted gate and walks through an overgrown garden with an unkempt tennis court.
A thunderstorm begins as Ned knocks on the front door of a locked, dark and empty house.
He then breaks down on the front stoop and cries.