Pat Solitano Jr. (Bradley Cooper) is released from a mental health facility into the care of his mother Dolores (Jacki Weaver) and father Pat Sr. (Robert De Niro) after eight months of treatment for bipolar disorder.
Pat soon learns that his wife, Nikki, has moved away and his father is out of work and resorting to illegal bookmaking to earn money to start a restaurant.
Pat is determined to get his life back on track and reconcile with Nikki, who obtained a restraining order against him after the violent episode that sent him away.

While talking to his court-mandated therapist Dr. Patel (Anupam Kher), Pat explains again why he was hospitalized.
Coming home early from his high school teaching job, noticing clothes thrown on the floor and his wedding song—Stevie Wonder's "My Cherie Amour"—playing, he had found Nikki in the shower with another man, who told him he (Pat) should leave.
Enraged, he beat the man nearly to death.
Despite this, Pat doesn't believe he needs medication to manage his condition.
He tells Dr. Patel (Cliff), that he has taken a new outlook on life, summarized by the term 'excelsior'.
[citation needed] This is a reference to the name of the film, as in his "beautiful" outlook on life, he attempts to see the good, or 'silver linings', in all that he experiences, however challenging.
As part of this outlook, and transformation, he has lost weight and has attempted to read the literature books that his wife Nikki teaches to kids at her school.

At dinner with his friend Ronnie (John Ortiz), he meets Ronnie's sister-in-law, Tiffany Maxwell (Jennifer Lawrence), a recent widow who just lost her job.
Pat and Tiffany develop an odd friendship through their shared neurosis, and he sees an opportunity to communicate with Nikki through her.
Tiffany offers to deliver a letter to Nikki, if in return he will be her partner in an upcoming dance competition.
He reluctantly agrees and the two begin a rigorous practice regimen over the following weeks.
Pat believes the competition will be a good way to show Nikki he has changed and become a better man.
Tiffany gives Pat a typed reply from Nikki, in which she cautiously hints there may be a chance for a reconciliation between them.

Things go well for Pat until his father asks him to attend a Philadelphia Eagles game he has bet virtually all of his money on, as a "good-luck charm."
Pat asks Tiffany to have time off from practice to attend the game, but is dragged into a fight with racist thugs attacking his psychiatrist and brother, and is hauled away by police.
The Eagles lose the game and Pat Sr. is furious.
Tiffany arrives, and also berates Pat, and points out that the way she "reads the signs," the Eagles do better when she and Pat are together, as they won every game they played on occasions when Pat and Tiffany spent time together.
Pat Sr., now convinced that Pat being with Tiffany is actually good luck, makes a parlay with his gambling friend that if the Eagles win their game against the Dallas Cowboys, and if Pat and Tiffany average a score of 5 out of 10 in their dance competition, he will win back double the money he lost on the first bet.
Pat is reluctant to participate in the dance contest under those conditions, goes outside to re-read Nikki's letter, and notices that it also refers to reading the signs.
With the Solitanos' finances in danger, Tiffany and Pat's father decide to persuade Pat by telling him that Nikki will be there.

Pat, Tiffany, and their friends and family arrive at the competition on the night of the football game.
Tiffany despairs when she finds that Nikki is in the audience as well, leaves the ballroom, and starts drinking with a stranger.
Pat finds her and practically hauls her onto the dance floor.
They begin their routine as the Eagles defeat the Cowboys.

At the conclusion of their set, Pat and Tiffany are elated to score exactly 5 points.
Amid cheers from his family and confused looks from the crowd, Pat approaches Nikki and speaks quietly into her ear.
Tiffany sees this and storms outside.
Pat leaves Nikki behind after only a short conversation, intent on finding Tiffany.
Pat's father informs him that Tiffany left, and tells him that she loves him right now and that it will be a sin if he doesn't reach out to this moment that life has given him.
Pat tells his father that he loves him, then runs after Tiffany.
He hands Tiffany a letter that he wrote for her, which admits that he knows she forged Nikki's letter.
He confesses his love for her and that he loved her from the moment he met her, and apologizes that it took him so long to come to terms with this.
They share a kiss, become a couple, and Pat Sr. opens a restaurant with the money he has won.