Mr. Bean (Rowan Atkinson) is a well-meaning but hopelessly clumsy and destructive guard at the Royal National Gallery in London.
Attempts by the gallery's board of directors to fire Bean are thwarted by the chairman (Sir John Mills) who, for unspecified reasons, is very fond of him.
Desperate to rid themselves of the turmoil Bean unintentionally causes, the board members send him to the United States to represent them at the unveiling of the portrait Whistler's Mother, which has been purchased for $50 million by the fictional Grierson Art Gallery in Los Angeles.
Bean's visit has been arranged by the gallery's curator, David Langley (Peter MacNicol), who is very impressed by the National Gallery's fabricated praise of "Dr. Bean, the genius", and decides to accommodate Bean in his house, much to the chagrin of his wife Allison (Pamela Reed), son Kevin (Andrew Lawrence) and daughter Jennifer (Tricia Vessey), who are unhappy with the thought of Bean suddenly living with them for two months.

When Bean arrives in Los Angeles, he is immediately arrested by the airport police for pretending to conceal a gun in his pocket (he reaches into his pocket and pulls his hand back out making a finger gun when the airport police tell him to put his weapon on the floor and take two steps back), being let off only after the police find out that he has no gun with him.
At the Langley home, Bean's weird behavior quickly worries Allison, who asks David to get rid of him, but David assures her Bean is just eccentric.
Later, Bean accompanies David to the art gallery.
When Bean uses the bathroom, he accidentally splashes water on his pants after washing his hands.
He climbs on a trash can and uses a hand dryer to dry the wet spot but gets his pants wet again.
He then gets a pamphlet to cover the wet spot, but finds a fan during the meeting and uses it to dry his pants.
The gallery's owner and David's boss George Grierson (Harris Yulin) is, like Allison, put off by Bean's weirdness and warns David that since he was the one who recommended Bean, he would be held responsible for Bean's actions.
When they return home later, David manages to convince Allison to let Bean stay with them, however after Bean accidentally destroys some of her prized possessions, she immediately leaves for her mother's house with the kids, leaving David alone with Bean.
They decide to spend time together by going to an amusement park, where Bean is arrested again for tampering with a virtual roller coaster in a bid to make it more scary.
At the police station, after noticing Bean's stupid behavior in front of a two-way mirror, Lieutenant Brutus (Richard Gant), who had encountered him earlier at the airport, releases him, but warns David that Bean will be sent to prison if he steps out of line again.
David, who had defended Bean and his antics all along thinking that he is eccentric, now begins to doubt whether he is a genius.
After Bean accidentally messes up an unexpected dinner with Grierson and his wife that night, David confronts him and after asking him a few questions about art, finds out that Bean is not an art expert at all.

The next morning, David and Bean find out that Whistler's Mother has finally arrived at the gallery and immediately rush there.
At the gallery, David goes with the rest of the staff for a security briefing, leaving Bean alone with the painting.
While studying it, he accidentally sneezes on the painting.
His attempts to rectify it only end up ruining the painting, leaving a white mark at the place where Whistler's Mother's face should be.
To make matters worse, he tries to repaint the face, only to end up drawing a cartoon face.
When David sees the ruined painting, he goes ballistic fearing the loss of his job and possible arrest as he feels that he is indirectly responsible.
He and Bean then go to a bar and drown their sorrows.
When they return home that night, they are confronted by Allison, who had unexpectedly returned home with the kids.
She reproaches David for coming home drunk and even contemplates leaving him for good.

Bean is feeling guilty over the effect his antics have taken on David and his family.
However on conversation with Kevin, who has grown to like him, he hatches a plan.
He sneaks into the gallery in the middle of the night and distracts the security guard, following which he enters his room, puts some laxative in his coffee and switches the key to the men's bathroom.
With the security guard out of the way, he then enters the room where the painting is kept, removes the ruined painting from its frame, replaces it with a poster copy and applies mixed albumen and Allison's clear nail varnish over it to make it look like a genuine painting.

The next morning, an anxious David and a relaxed Bean head to the gallery for the painting's unveiling, which is to be done by General Newton (Burt Reynolds).
When David sees the restored painting, he becomes completely relieved and praises Bean, but again starts to panic when Bean is called to deliver a speech.
To his surprise, Bean gives an insightful speech about the painting and its significance, winning the praise of Grierson, Newton and the press.
While David is celebrating with Bean, Brutus comes over and informs him that Jennifer had met with a serious accident while riding on a motorcycle with her boyfriend and is in hospital.
On the way to the hospital, Brutus stops to deal with a carjacker and is shot in the abdomen.

At the hospital, David and Allison reconcile over Jennifer, who is in a coma.
Meanwhile, Bean is mistaken for a doctor by a group of surgeons (this happens after he picks up a stethoscope dropped by a real doctor) and force him to perform an emergency operation on Brutus.
He manages to save Brutus's life by removing the bullet from his abdomen using only his hand, following which he decides to escape from the hospital.
However, he is noticed by David and Allison (who are not aware that the doctor is Bean), who ask him to check on Jennifer.
After unsuccessfully trying to wake Jennifer from her coma, Bean picks up a defibrillator, but suffers an electric shock when he switches it on, which sends him flying.
He lands on top of Jennifer, causing her to wake up.
The Langleys are grateful to him for reviving Jennifer and agree to let him stay for another week in gratitude, following a suggestion by him when he reveals who he really is.

The movie ends with Bean retiring to bed at his London home, where it is revealed that he has the original painting (the one he ruined earlier in the film) on his bedroom wall.