Frank Galvin (Paul Newman), once a promising graduate of Boston College Law School and a lawyer at an elite Boston law firm, is now an alcoholic ambulance chaser who has lost all of his four cases over the last three years.
As a favor, his former partner and friend Mickey (Jack Warden) throws him a medical malpractice case where it's all but assured that the defense will settle for a large amount.
The case involves a young woman who was given a knock-out anesthetic during childbirth, following which she choked on her own vomit and was without air for a number of minutes.
The baby died and the young woman is now in a coma, on a respirator.
Her sister and brother-in-law are hoping for a settlement to properly care for the victim, and Frank assures them they have a strong case.
Meanwhile, Frank becomes romantically involved with a woman he meets at a local bar, Laura (Charlotte Rampling).

Frank visits the comatose woman and is deeply affected.
He then meets with the defendants: the Archdiocese of Boston, who run the Catholic hospital where the incident took place.
As expected, the archdiocese offers a fairly substantial amount of money to settle out of court, but Frank declines the offer, as he fears that this may be his last chance to do something right as a lawyer, and that merely taking the handout would render him "lost."
Everyone, including the presiding judge and the victim's relatives, is stunned by Frank's decision.

Things quickly go wrong for Frank: his client's brother-in-law finds out from "the other side" that he has turned down a $210,000 settlement, and angrily confronts Frank; his star medical expert disappears; a hastily arranged substitute's credentials and testimony are called into serious question on the witness stand.
His opponent—the high-priced attorney Ed Concannon (James Mason)—has at his disposal a large legal team that is masterful with the press; the presiding judge (Milo O'Shea) makes deliberate efforts to obstruct Frank's questioning; and any witnesses who were present in the operating room refuse to testify about what, if anything, went wrong.

While looking for cigarettes in Laura's handbag, Mickey discovers a cheque from Concannon.
It's clear she's a spy providing information on Frank's legal strategy to the opposition.
At their next encounter a coldly furious Frank strikes Laura in the face with great force, knocking her to the floor.
Even then, when he has the clear opportunity to have the case declared a mistrial, Frank decides to continue to trial.

Frank's big break comes when he discovers the whereabouts of a lone witness quickly hushed after the incident.
Her shattering testimony—that she was told by one of the doctors in the case to change her notes on the admitting form after the incident to hide an egregious error by one of the defendants—stuns the entire courtroom.
Concannon, obviously distressed, attempts to discredit her and manages to get the judge to declare her testimony stricken from the record on legal technicalities.
Frank delivers a brief but moving closing argument, telling the jury "you are the law," and entreating them to seek "truth and justice" in their hearts before they vote.
When the jury returns, they find for Frank's client and then ask whether they are limited to the amount sought by the plaintiffs.
The presiding judge resignedly replies they are not.

As Frank is congratulated by his clients, Mickey, and colleagues and strangers alike, he catches a glimpse of Laura watching him from afar.
We then find Laura in a drunken stupor on her bed.
She drops her whiskey on the floor, drags the phone toward her, picks up the receiver.
The final shot is of Frank in his office looking thoughtful, drinking coffee out of a paper cup, making himself ignore the persistent ringing of his phone.