Brandon (Michael Fassbender) is a successful, handsome advertising executive in his thirties living a fantasy life of hypersexuality in New York City.
Distanced from his dysfunctional family and seemingly without any close friends, his carefully cultivated life lets him indulge a growing secret sexual addiction, while struggling with his eroding ability to connect emotionally with anyone.
During his morning commute to work, on a subway train he flirts by with a woman and she reciprocates.
She has on both a wedding ring and an engagement ring, and when they exit the train, she disappears into the crowd.

His company's computer system is compromised by a virus; in the clean-up, Brandon's computer hard drive indicates an obsessive history of surfing pornographic sites, one of which is probably the source of the virus.
Although Brandon, who is driven to masturbate in the bathroom stall at work, is responsible, it is assumed by company heads that his intern is to blame.

Brandon and his married boss David (James Badge Dale) meet three women at a club.
Later on, Brandon has sex with one of them, the one David was actually pursuing.
When Brandon arrives home, he assumes a burglar is in his house but finds the unexpected visitor is his sister Sissy (Carey Mulligan).
Sissy works as a part-time singer who has a few gigs in the city and asks to stay with Brandon; he later hears her pleading with her lover on the telephone not to reject her.
Brandon is annoyed by Sissy's visit as she is emotionally needy, a trait with which he has no patience.
She is also interfering with and hindering his personal life, which forces him to think about the increasingly unhealthy obsessive path his life is taking.

The next morning at the subway station, Sissy is balancing herself on the edge of the platform.
Brandon rebukes her, and in the brief exchange that follows Sissy persuades her brother to visit her as she performs at a club—something that he avoided in the past.
Later, Brandon is joined by an enthusiastic David as they watch Sissy singing a very sad jazz version of "New York, New York", which makes Brandon emotional.
Sissy joins Brandon and David at their table, where David courts her despite Brandon's evident dismay.
Sissy accepts David's advances and has sex with him in her brother's bedroom while Brandon, disgusted, leaves his apartment and goes out running.
Later that night, Sissy attempts to sleep in his bed with him, feeling detachment and apologetic.
Enraged at her seemingly random behavior, he orders her out of the room.

Brandon's had a distant attraction to his co-worker Marianne (Nicole Beharie) and the two flirt with each other at work.
On the way to dinner with her, he stops to observe a high-rise hotel, where he sees two people copulating against the window.
The date is relaxed with sparks between the attractive couple but turns unintentionally personal as conversation steers on their affective differences: Marianne, who was recently separated, keeps a positive attitude toward commitment, while Brandon dislikes marriage and admits that his relationships have never lasted longer than four months.
Although the pair seem very curious about each other, they part ways at the end of the night without kissing, each going home alone, which seems to be a turning point for Brandon, as he enjoys the fragile (but nonsexual) moment and she reciprocates.

Later that night, Sissy accidentally walks in on Brandon masturbating in his bathroom.
He physically attacks her and accuses her of spying on him.
She then finds his laptop open on a pornography webcam site; the woman on the web-cam is familiar with him and assumes Sissy is his girlfriend.
Brandon slams the laptop shut.
Disturbed and upset, Sissy leaves.
Brandon angrily throws out all of his pornographic magazines and his laptop.
The next day, at work, he kisses Marianne and the two leave in their excitement.
He takes her to the same high-rise hotel where he saw the two people copulating.
The two caress each other and kiss in a nervous, passionate attempt to have sex but Brandon seemingly can not maintain an erection and appears heavily distressed.
Marianne is saddened but seems to understand which is a turning point for Brandon, as he realizes he is unable to connect with her.
or presumably anyone else, except in a detached sexual way.

Marianne leaves, after which Brandon indulges with another woman against the window later that day.
Afterwards, as she prepares to leave, he struggles with the fact that he can't have sex with someone he cares for, while feeling nothing for the women he does have sex with.
Brandon is home watching cartoons when Sissy arrives.
Knowing that she is emotionally dependent and has probably called David, he tells her that he is disgusted with her and that David won't be seeing her again because he has a wife and children.
He accuses her of playing the victim; she claims she never noticed David's wedding ring.
He tells her she needs to leave, that he feels trapped by her.
She says that they are family and are supposed to help each other, but Brandon accuses her of being needy and a burden.

Brandon begins to unravel and when he goes to a bar his advances are less smooth and more desperate, as he gropes a woman while verbally enticing her.
He ends up being beaten up by her boyfriend whom he has deliberately antagonised by making aggressive references to his fantasies about her.

After he is denied entrance to a night-club he notices a gay bar across the street and curiously, desperately enters.
He walks to the back, where several men are copulating; a man kisses Brandon and then fellates him.
Upon leaving the bar, he listens to a voicemail message from Sissy telling him how much she needs him, and that they aren't bad people, they've just come from a bad place.
Much like a drunk on a night of binge drinking, Brandon continues, visiting an apartment occupied by two prostitutes, where the three copulate.

While Brandon is riding the subway on his way home, the passengers are asked to leave the carriage due to an implied suicide further up the tracks.
He frantically calls Sissy, but she does not answer, so he rushes home.
When he gets there, Sissy, who has a history of cutting herself, is lying on the bathroom floor, having slashed her wrists.
She survives and he comforts her in the hospital.
After leaving, he collapses and cries in the rain.
Some time later, Brandon is seen sitting on a subway train and the same woman from the beginning of the film sits across from him, this time he notices she is only wearing an engagement ring.
He tries to look away, but she keeps staring at him and smiling.
She stands up to leave the train and Brandon keeps staring at her.
The train begins screeching to a stop.
At the height of the noise, the screen cuts to black, leaving the audience to ponder Brandon's next decision.