Bill Gluckman (Ryan O' Neil) is a wealthy Jewish man, running for govner of California.
His son Bradley Gluckman (Jamie Kennedy) is trying to become a successful rapper.
Bradley's (B-Rads) dreams of being a rapper started when he was little, when his maid Gladis was listening to rap music while cleaning.
Ever since then, B-Rad has been determined to be the biggest rapper there ever was.

After Tom (Blair Underwood) has had it with B-Rad's constant interruptions with the election.
Bill decides that B-Rad see a physiatrist (Jeffrey Tambor).
Dr.Feldman tells B- Rads parents that B-Rad has a serious case of "Gangstaphrienia".
Tom then has an idea, to hire two actors (Anthony Anderson & Taye Diggs) to try and scare B-Rad back to normal.
With the help of PJ's (Anthony) cousin Shondra (Regina Hall), they kidnap B-Rad and take him to the ghetto.
Shondra tries to convince B-Rad if he stops acting like a gangster, they will let him go.
B-Rad tries to tell Shondra he can't, it's who he is.
The actors then try plan B, forcing B-Rad to rob a convenient store owned by a Korean family.
Later realizing that it was the wrong store, PJ (Anthony) and Sean (Taye) begin to worry the plan will fail and they will go to jail.
B-Rad finds his emergency stash of cash in his pants and pays for the alcohol he was supposed to steal.
B-Rad then lies to them and says he stole it.
When they find a recite in the bad, B-Rad says he stole that too.

The actors try taking him to a scary movie to get him to stop trying to be a gangster.
All B-Rad did was get scared.
He just screamed and threw popcorn all over the place, ruining the movie.
At this point PJ and Sean are frustrated and decide to take B-Rad to a club and have him compete in a rap battle.
B-Rad ends up getting thrown off the stage due to using the N word in his bars.
He's thrown In a dumpster full of wonder bread while the actors laugh at him historically.
B-Rad feels as if he never could rap, until Shondra changes his mind.
After she cheers him up, they kiss.
B-Rad takes it too far and gets on top of Shondra only to be thrown off the bed by her.
She storms out of the room and B-Rad takes a nap.
He about a rat by the name of Ronnie Rizzat (Snoop Dog) and he tells to just be himself, but the rat "would rather eat garbage then listen to his tired ass rhymes".
His dream ends and B-Rad hears the actors on the phone with Tom.
B-Rad then realizes the whole thing was a joke, including him and Shondra.

Angry, B-Rad storms out of the house.
Sean and PJ (or Bloodbath and Tree) follow him outside only to be held hostage by a real gangster Tec (Damien Dante Wayans) who is also Shondra's ex boyfriend.
Tec and his crew kidnap B-Rad and the actors and take them to an empty parking lot.
Tec calls Tom and tells him if Bill wants to see his son again, they have to give him $500,000.
Tom has another plan, if they kill B-Rad, Bill will get more votes for his campaign.
Tom tells Tec there's no deal.
Tec points a gun at B-Rad and a pack of other gangsters pull up and start shooting at B-Rad and the others.
B-Rad then takes two guns, hops on the roof of a car, and starts aiming fire at all of them.
Scaring them away, Tec realizes B-Rad is gangster himself.
He then makes B-Rad one of them, leaving the actors to be tied up and brought to a party.
While at the party, everyone sees B-Rad on television shooting at the gangsters, a security camera caught everything.
Worried and realizing he needs to be a better father to B-Rad, Bill goes to find B-Rad and save him.
Tom is frustrated with Bill and tells him to just leave it alone.
Refusing Bill fires Tom and drives to south central to find him.
B-Rads crew Adji (Kal Penn) , Mocha (Nick Swardson), and Monster (Keili Lefkovitz) also see the news and grab their best weapons to save him.
Shondra shows up to the party, after seeing the news as well.
Shondra sees PJ and Sean and asks where B-Rad is, they tell her only to be shut up by other gangsters there.
Shondra enters a bedroom, where B-Rad and two other woman are taking off his pants.
Shondra acts like his baby mama to get them to leave.
B-Rad gets mad and shoots his foot, not thinking the gun is real.
Realizing it is, he jumps around the room in pain.
Shondra tries to help him as Tec walks in, thinking Shondra is hooking up with B-Rad.
Tec is jealous and threatens to shoot them both.

B-Rads crew crashes threw the wall, and point their guns at Tec and his crew.
Right after, Bill crashes threw the wall as well.
Bill apologizes to B-Rad for not always being there for him.
Accepting his apology, they hug.
Tec is still angry, and ruins the moment by him and his crew pointing there guns at Bill and B-Rad.
B- Rad decides to rap, only annoying Tec.
Adji accidentally fires his gun and blows up the house.
B-Rad was injured in his butt.
Shondra ends up opening her own salon and her and B-Rad are together.
Bill Gluckman was elected Governor of California, and he was glad to have his son with him.
Even though he still hasn't changed.