During a prologue, not directly related to the storyline of this movie, Hezbollah militants in Beirut, Lebanon, escort producer Lowell Bergman (Pacino) to a meeting with Sheikh Fadlallah, the founder of the Hezbollah.
Lowell convinces him to grant an interview to Mike Wallace (Plummer) for 60 Minutes, a well-known TV series on CBS.
Lowell stands his ground while speaking with the sheikh.

In Louisville, Kentucky, Dr. Jeffrey Wigand (Crowe) leaves his office at the Brown & Williamson (B&W) Tobacco Company and returns to his home, in the upscale suburb of Hurstbourne, on the east side of town, to his wife, Liane (Venora), and to their two daughters, both of whom have serious medical conditions requiring continuing treatment.
When Liane asks about the cartons in Jeff's car, he reveals that Thomas Sandefur (Gambon), the CEO of the firm, has fired him.
[Wigand, who holds a PhD degree in biochemistry and endocrinology, and who speaks Japanese, has worked at B&W as the corporate VP for research and development.]

During an interlude Mike Wallace in Beirut begins his interview with the sheikh, after both Mike and Lowell have firmly stood their ground against the interviewee’s armed bodyguards, who have tried to hassle, harass, demean, or intimidate them.

After Lowell returns to his home, in Berkeley, California, he receives from an anonymous sender a box containing highly technical documents about the "ignition propensity" of tobacco, which have originated within the firm making Philip Morris cigarettes.
He calls a friend at the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and asks for the name of someone who can translate the data into laymen's terms.
The contact refers him to Wigand, who first rebuffs him.
Lowell next travels to Louisville, piques his interest, and meets him at the historic Seelbach Hotel in Louisville.

Wigand agrees to interpret the scientific documents but stresses that he cannot talk about anything else; Bergman senses the existence of something worthy of pursuit or investigation.
After leaving with the documents, Wigand receives a summons to a meeting with Sandefur, who seeks to coerce him into signing a more inclusive confidentiality agreement.
A company lawyer threatens to immediately take away his family's health benefits and to file suit against him if he does not comply.
Wigand does not yet sign (although eventually he does); greatly agitated, he later calls Bergman and accuses him of having betrayed him.

Bergman visits Wigand's house the next day and vigorously insists that he has not revealed anything to B&W, then Wigand, reassured, talks to Bergman about the seven CEOs (whom he calls the seven dwarfs) of "Big Tobacco", who, he says, committed perjury before the Congress of the US while testifying about their pretended lack of awareness of the addictiveness of nicotine.
Bergman tells Wigand that he must decide for himself whether to blow the whistle on Big Tobacco.

Bergman returns to the CBS News headquarters, in New York City, where he, Wallace, and others discuss Wigand's situation.
A CBS lawyer at the meeting concedes that Wigand's confidentiality agreement effectively silences him.
Bergman, however, suggests that, if a court calls Wigand as a witness during a proceeding of some sort against one or more of the firms in Big Tobacco, then the confidentiality agreement would not prevent the court from compelling Wigand to testify.
They believe that, if Wigand gives testimony under those circumstances, then afterward he could, without violating the confidentiality agreement, lawfully give an interview for ‘’60 Minutes’’ about the matter revealed in a public deposition (directed by a court).

The Wigand family move into an adequate but more modest house in a different neighborhood, and Wigand gets a job to teach chemistry and Japanese at a high school in Louisville.
Soon one night Barbara, the older daughter, awakes Jeff and alerts him to the sounds of someone in the backyard.
Jeff arms himself, goes outside, and sees just a raccoon, but he also finds a fresh human footprint in his newly planted garden.

The next night, while Wigand and Bergman eat dinner, Lowell asks Jeff about incidents from his past – incidents which Big Tobacco might use against him – to embarrass him, discredit him, or deflect attention from his testimony.
Jeff reveals several incriminating incidents, then he says that he does not see how they would affect his testimony; Bergman assures him that they will.

Bergman contacts Richard Scruggs (Feore), a private attorney, who, with Ron Motley (McGill), another private attorney, acting on behalf of the State of Mississippi in cooperation with Mike Moore, the state attorney general, has filed a suit against Big Tobacco, seeking to require a total of 13 tobacco manufacturers to reimburse the state for Medicaid funds used and other public-health expenses incurred due to the treatment of illnesses induced by smoking.
[Mississippi was the first state to sue the tobacco companies, and the attorneys general of 45 other states later joined in the litigation.]
Scruggs expresses an interest in Bergman's idea, and he asks him to ask Wigand to call them.

Meanwhile Jeff receives an e-mail death threat against both him and his family, and he finds a bullet in his mailbox, so he contacts the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), some of whose agents not only subtly accuse him of emotional imbalance but also confiscate his computer for “evidence” (for an undisclosed purpose).
Some of the agents behave in a questionable manner, then Lowell contacts an official of the FBI in Washington, DC, reports the behavior, and raises a question about the possibility of improper collusion between the agents and certain retired agents now in the employ of Brown & Williamson.
The contact person in Washington promises to look into it.

Wigand, enraged over the threats to his family, phones Bergman and demands to fly to New York City immediately to tape an interview.

During Jeff's interview with Mike, Jeff states that B&W, along with others, intentionally makes their cigarettes more addictive, and that the firm has consciously ignored public-health considerations in the interest of profit instead.
Jeff describes the chemistry which increases the effect of the nicotine, and he accuses Tom Sandefur, the CEO of B&W, along with the CEOs of the six other major firms in Big Tobacco, of having lied during a hearing before a committee of the Congress of the US.

Jeff begins his new teaching job in Louisville, and he calls Richard Scruggs; one day, when he returns home, he finds Lowell and a security detail of three men, whom Lowell has arranged.
Liane, Jeff's wife, struggles under pressure, and she tells him so.

Soon Jeff travels to Pascagoula, Mississippi, to give a deposition; however, while he passes through the passenger terminal at the airport in Louisville, a functionary, with a sloppy and unprofessional gesture, serves him with a copy of a temporary restraining order, which a state court in Kentucky has issued (by a request by B&W), forbidding him from testifying.

Lawyers for B&W have tried to persuade a state judge in Pascagoula to honor the order, but he has thrown it out; however, everyone involved recognizes and agrees that, if Dr. Wigand testifies in Mississippi and returns to Kentucky, then he could face the possibility of his arrest and jailing for contempt of court (due to his alleged disobedience of the order of the Kentucky court).

In Pascagoula Jeff talks with Scruggs, Motley, and Moore, then, after long and intense introspection, he makes a decision; he goes to a Mississippi court and, after a display of courtroom fireworks among the attorneys, including one on behalf of B&W, gives his deposition, during which he says that nicotine acts as a drug.

Afterward Jeff returns to Louisville and to his home, where he finds that Liane has left him and has taken their daughters with her; later she files for divorce.

At the CBS News headquarters the legal counsel for CBS News, Helen Caperelli (Gershon), summons Bergman, Wallace, and others, including Don Hewitt (Hall), the creator and the executive producer of 60 Minutes.
Caperelli invokes and describes a legal theory, called tortious interference (with a contractual relationship): If two parties have an agreement, such as a confidentiality agreement, and if a third party induces one of those first two parties to break the agreement, then the aggrieved party has a right to sue each of the other two for damages for any loss incurred due to the breach.
The more truth Wigand tells, the greater the potential damage, the theory says, along with a greater likelihood that CBS may face a multi-billion-dollar lawsuit by Brown & Williamson.

Later Eric Kluster (Tobolowsky), the president of CBS News, announces his decision to air an “alternate” abbreviated segment in the place of the original one, omitting the interview with Wigand; Bergman vehemently disagrees.

Bergman also reveals a recent discovery, which he believes to be the real reason for which several highly placed CBS executives have begun leaning on CBS News to edit the segment – that is, the fear that the possibility of a suit by B&W might jeopardize the pending sale of CBS to Westinghouse, along with the fear of the possibility of the loss or reduction of profits to certain CBS executives who own substantial numbers of shares of stock in CBS.
Bergman quotes from a document in a filing now before the SEC, which names specific people who would benefit from the pending sale, including Helen Caperelli, who would receive a profit of 3.9 million dollars, and Eric Kluster, 1.4 million dollars.
[The CEO of CBS at that time, Laurence Tisch, owned almost 25 percent of the stock outstanding in CBS; he owned also a corporation which owned the Lorillard Tobacco Company, which was then the fifth largest such firm in the US.]

Wallace and Hewitt agree to edit the segment, leaving Bergman alone to advocate airing it uncensored.

In an attempt to discredit Dr. Wigand and his testimony, one or more of the members of Big Tobacco hire the firm of Terry Linzner, a well-known investigative lawyer, based in Washington, DC, which then starts a smear campaign against Wigand by dredging every possible tiny negative detail from his personal history and by turning over the information to the public-relations (PR) firm of John Scanlon (Torn), in New York City, which then publishes and circulates a 500-page dossier to various people in the news media.

Bergman obtains a copy of that document, which contains numerous false, twisted, distorted, and exaggerated claims; he also learns that an editor at The Wall Street Journal will soon publish an article about Wigand and his perceived credibility.
However, Bergman contacts the editor and persuades him to delay the story long enough to obtain a verification.
Bergman arranges for Jack Palladino (playing himself), an attorney and investigator, based in San Francisco, California, to evaluate the dossier, then he presents the results to the editor of the Journal, who in turn delays the deadline and assigns two of his reporters to examine Bergman’s (that is, Palladino’s) findings, which include the discovery of a number of misrepresentations of the quotations from sources listed in the dossier from Linzner, Scanlon, and Big Tobacco.

Still, though, because of the infighting at CBS News about the segment, Don Hewitt orders Bergman to take a “vacation” for a while – “now”.

Soon 60 Minutes airs the abbreviated segment – without the full interview with Dr. Wigand, then with some difficulty Lowell completes a telephone call to Jeff, who eventually speaks with him in an extremely angry, agitated, and displeased way.
Jeff accuses Lowell of having manipulated him; Lowell defends not only his own motive and behavior but also the value of Jeff and his testimony.

From a distant part of the US, while waiting for a different major news story to break, Lowell calls an editor at The New York Times and confirms to him a rumor which he had already heard – that 60 Minutes was “sitting on something explosive” – along with the revelation that CBS corporate executives had forced the withdrawal of the full interview – that corporate executives had dictated “what is or is not the news”; the contact consults a managing editor, who decides to place the story on page 1, and who indicates a possibility of “editorial interest”, so Lowell provides the details.
The next morning the entire sordid story starts on the front page of The New York Times, and a scathing editorial severely criticizes CBS, accusing it of having “betrayed the legacy of Edward R. Murrow”.

The Wall Street Journal promptly follows with its analysis of the 500-page dossier, which says in part that “most of it seems pretty unsubstantiated”; it quotes Richard Scruggs, calling it “the worst kind of an organized smear campaign against a whistle-blower”.
The Journal continues, “A close look at the file and independent research by this newspaper into its key claim indicate that many of the serious allegations [against Dr. Wigand] are backed by scant or contradictory evidence”, and it specifically refutes the Big Tobacco smear campaign as “the lowest form of character assassination”.
The Journal further prints Jeff’s deposition (from Mississippi) in its entirety.

Eventually 60 Minutes airs the original segment, including the full interview with Dr. Wigand by Mike Wallace.

Lowell then tells Mike that, despite the belated broadcast of the uncensored segment, he intends to quit, saying, “What got broken here doesn’t go back together again”.
After the last scene the movie ends with a written presentation of certain details about the outcome.

In 1996 Dr. Wigand received the award of the Sallie Mae First-class Teacher of the Year, as one of 51 such recipients nationwide.

In November 1998 B&W and three other tobacco manufacturers (Philip Morris, Lorillard, and R.J. Reynolds) entered into a settlement agreement with the attorneys general of 46 states plus the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the US Virgin Islands.
[Already Florida, Minnesota, Mississippi, and Texas had reached their own respective individual agreements with the tobacco industry.]
The master agreement calls for the four tobacco firms to pay about 206 billion dollars to the states, most of which (about 183 billion dollars) is payable in annual installments from 2000 through 2025.

Dr. Wigand in 2014 lives in Mount Pleasant, Michigan.

Lowell Bergman in 2014 holds an endowed distinguished professorship in the Graduate School of Journalism at UC Berkeley; he also serves as a producer and correspondent for the Frontline series at PBS.