Major Bennett "Ben" Marco (Denzel Washington) is a war veteran who begins to doubt what is commonly known about his famous U.S. Army unit.
During the Gulf War, Sergeant First Class Raymond Shaw (Liev Schreiber) supposedly rescued all but two members in his unit, of which Marco was the commanding officer.
This made Raymond a war hero, gained him the Medal of Honor, and launched him into a career in politics.
One of Marco's former NCOs, Corporal Al Melvin (Jeffrey Wright), contacts him and says that he suffers from confusing memories and "dreams" about their lost Army unit.
He is clearly deranged, but he shows Major Marco some images he has drawn from his dreams.

The characters begin to come together in a near-future, dystopian America defined by xenophobia, jingoism, de facto martial law, terrorism, and increasing corporate control.
Raymond, now a U.S. congressman, becomes his party's candidate for Vice President after his mother, Senator Eleanor Shaw (Meryl Streep), pressures party leaders into passing over their intended pick, Senator Tom Jordan (Jon Voight).
A rivalry exists between Eleanor and Jordan, partly due to a past relationship between Shaw and Jordan's daughter Jocelyne (Vera Farmiga).
That evening, Marco has a nightmare in which he is being held captive and brainwashed along with his fellow soldiers.

After Shaw is nominated, Marco begins investigating what really happened during the war.
He finds an implant inside of his back, and, having it analyzed, realizes that it is a nanotechnological experiment connected with Manchurian Global, an international weapons manufacturer with major political connections.
Marco researches Manchurian and recognizes Atticus Noyle, a former Manchurian geneticist-turned-mercenary, from one of his nightmares.
Marco brings his findings to the attention of Jordan, who, although he doesn't entirely believe the story, confronts the Shaws and suggests that Raymond bow out from the campaign.
Instead, Eleanor "activates" Raymond and orders him to kill Jordan.
Jocelyne is also killed when she tries to stop an entranced Raymond.

With the help of the FBI, Marco arranges a private meeting with Shaw in on Election Day, and tries to convince Shaw of what is happening to him.
Shaw seems to agree, and gives Marco his Medal of Honor, which he says he does not deserve.
Raymond receives a phone call from Eleanor, who activates Marco with the intention of having him assassinate the President-Elect and giving Raymond the presidency by default.
Raymond and Marco resist their conditioning to remain in a lucid state of mind.
At the election party, Raymond shares a dance with Eleanor on-stage, which allows Marco to kill them both.
Just before Marco can kill himself, FBI Agent Eugenie "Rosie" Rose (Kimberly Elise) stops him by shooting him in the shoulder.

The FBI covers up Marco's involvement, framing a deceased Manchurian Global contractor for the shooting.
In the last scene, Rosie takes Marco to the compound where he was conditioned, apparently in conjunction with an FBI investigation.
Marco now more clearly understands what has happened, and he lets the sea take away a picture of the "lost platoon" along with Shaw's Medal of Honor.