U.S. Marine Tommy Riordan (Tom Hardy) visits his father, Paddy Conlon (Nick Nolte), a recovering alcoholic who has become a born-again Christian.
Tommy becomes angry about his father's formerly abusive behavior and Paddy fails to convince him that he has truly changed.
The next day, Tommy enters a gym where he beats a professional fighter named Pete "Mad Dog" Grimes (Erik Apple) unconscious in less than 30 seconds, in a fight which is filmed via a cell phone's video camera and later uploaded to the Internet, where it goes viral.
Tommy learns about a winner-takes-all mixed martial arts tournament called Sparta in which the winner will receive $5,000,000.
In order to provide for the family of his fallen friend in the Marine Corps, Tommy asks his father to help him train for the tournament, but only under the condition that Paddy does not try to reconcile their relationship.

Meanwhile, Tommy's older brother, Brendan Conlon (Joel Edgerton), a high school physics teacher and former UFC fighter, is struggling to financially provide for his wife Tess (Jennifer Morrison) and two daughters and faces the possibility of his home getting foreclosed due to mortgage re-financing to pay for his younger daughter's open heart surgery.
To increase his income, Brendan risks returning to his former profession as a mixed martial arts fighter battling amateur fighters for money.
Rumors of Brendan fighting in the ring begin spreading amongst his students.
The school's superintendent, objecting to his participation in such dangerous activities, suspends him without pay.
Left with no other option, Brendan seeks the training of old friend Frank Campana (Frank Grillo) and begins competing in smaller venue fights.
After the fighter Frank planned to enter into the Sparta tournament is injured during training, Brendan convinces Frank to enter him as a replacement.

After arriving at the tournament, Brendan discovers that Tommy has also entered.
Tommy is still bitter at Brendan for staying behind with Tess when Tommy and their mother left the drunken and abusive Paddy; Tommy was left to care for their mother when she became terminally ill. Brendan claims that he has forgiven his father for the wrong he has done, but Tommy is unconvinced.

Meanwhile, the video of Tommy beating "Mad Dog" attracts the attention of a Marine in Iraq whose life was saved by Tommy months prior.
The information and video of Tommy saving the Marine is shared with the press and Tommy becomes a national hero, gaining a massive fan base and appreciation from not only viewers, but from the U.S. Marine Corps as well.
However, Tommy's records surface from the Corps and reveal that he deserted the military after his entire unit was killed in a friendly fire bombing.
Tommy had been using his mother's maiden name as his own surname in order to evade arrest for his desertion.
The military police will take him into custody after the tournament is over.

Over two nights, Brendan and Tommy have contrasting fortunes: Tommy quickly and brutally knocks out opponents.
Brendan, meanwhile, has a much tougher time, outmatched physically but utilizing Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu to force submissions.

Tommy's Preliminary fight ends quickly, after a short feeling out process, Tommy knocks out his opponent after landing his first strike.
In Brendan's preliminary fight, he is out wrestled throughout the fight and is caught in a tight rear naked choke, unable to escape he waits out the clock and surives.
Going into the second round, He is able to secure a Kimura for a submission victory.
Brendan advances to the quarter finals, where after taking several unanswered body shots, locks in an Armbar submission.
In Tommy's quarter final bout, he finds success early again earning a TKO victory.

In the semi-final match, Brendan is matched up with Pound for Pound king, Koba.
A huge underdog going into the fight, Brendan is dominated.
Out struck and out muscled, Brendan has a difficult time mounting an effective offense and survives the first round.
The second round, again proves unseccesful for Brendan.
In his corner, coach Frank gives harsh words of encouragment to motivate Brendan.
Answering the bell of round three, Brendan finds new life and swings for the fences, making the bout a back and forth battle.
In the closing moments of the final round, Koba takes Brendan's back from the clinch and Brendan goes for a Rolling Kneebar.
As Koba attempts to escape the position, Brendan quickly reverses and readjusts the Kneebar narrowly wining by submission over the heavily favored Russian fighter Koba (Kurt Angle), in the biggest upset.
Tommy meets Mad Dog Grimes in the semifinals and this time Tommy tackles Mad Dog and within 10 seconds, knocks him unconscious with continuous punches until the ref pulls him off, albeit a very late stoppage.

The night before the final day, Paddy attempts to talk to Tommy about his actions in Iraq only to be berated and dismissed, which the following morning has caused a distraught Paddy to relapse and start drinking again.
Seeing his terrible pain, Tommy calms and comforts him.
In the end the brothers are the last fighters remaining in the tournament, and despite Brendan's desire to reconcile, they unleash all the anger they have towards one another.

The fight between the brothers shows Tommy having the upper hand initially, winning the first two rounds using his wrestling skills and brute strength.
In the closing moments of the second round, Tommy proceeds to throw strike at Brendan dispite the round had ended.
The third begins and Tommy again finds more success but Brendan manages to attemp an armbar.
Tommy escapes the submission but Brendan quickly transitions to an Omaplata technique, attacking the opposite arm.
Brendan trys to use as little torque as possible to force Tommy to submit.
Tommy refuses defeat and continues to strike with elbows with his free arm until Brendan dislocate Tommy's shoulder.
While Brendan goes to his corner for advice and water, Tommy sits alone in his corner with no one to help him as Paddy is not there.
With the fourth round starting, Brendan insists Tommy give up due to his injured shoulder.
As Tommy continues trying to knockout Brendan, Brendan unloads a barage of strikes onto Tommy, trying to end the fight.
Tommy goads Brendan to continue hitting him as the fourth round ends.
Both fighters return to their corners in tears.
At the start of round five, Brendan drops his hands refusing to continue fighting his brother but Tommy presists.
Tearfully Brendan realizes he has to force him to submit.
Brendan lands a brutal head kick and traps Tommy in a rear naked choke.
While they both lie struggling on the mat, Brendan tearfully apologizes to Tommy and tells him that he loves him.
After some hesitation, Tommy taps.
The two reconciled brothers exit the ring as their father smiles.