Truman Burbank is the unsuspecting star of The Truman Show, a reality television program in which his entire life, since before birth, is filmed by thousands of hidden cameras, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and broadcast live around the world.
The show's creator and executive producer Christof is able to capture Truman's real emotion and human behavior when put in certain situations.
Truman's hometown of Seahaven is a complete set built under a giant arcological dome in the Los Angeles area.
Truman's family and friends are all played by actors allowing Christof to control every aspect of Truman's life.
To prevent Truman from discovering his false reality, Christof has invented means of dissuading his sense of exploration, including "killing" his father in a storm initiated by Christof while on a fishing trip to instill in him a fear of the water, and making many news reports and commercials about the dangers of traveling, and featuring television shows about how good it is to stay at home.
Despite Christof's control, Truman has managed to behave in unexpected ways, in particular by falling in love with an extra, Sylvia, known to Truman as Lauren, instead of Meryl, the character intended to be his wife.
Though Sylvia is quickly removed from the set and Truman marries Meryl, he continues to secretly pine for her.
Sylvia becomes part of a "Free Truman" campaign that fights to free him from the show.

During the 30th year of the show, Truman notices certain aspects of his near-perfect world that seem out of place.
A theatrical light falls from the artificial night sky constellations, nearly hitting him (quickly passed off by local radio as an aircraft's dislodged landing light) and Truman's car radio picks up a conversation between the show's crew tracking his movements.
Truman also becomes aware of more subtle abnormalities within his regular day-to-day life, such as the way in which the same people appear in the same places at certain times each day and Meryl's tendency to blatantly advertise the various products she buys.
Truman's supposedly deceased father then reappears on the set dressed as a homeless man and is whisked away as soon as Truman notices him.

Despite the best efforts of his family and his best friend Marlon to reassure him, all these events cause Truman to start wondering about his life, realizing how the world seems to revolve around him.
Meryl grows increasingly stressed by the pressure of perpetuating the deception, and their marriage unravels in the face of Truman's increasing skepticism and attendant hostility towards her.
Truman attempts to leave Seahaven but is blocked by his inability to arrange flights, bus breakdowns, sudden traffic jams, a forest fire and a nuclear meltdown – which he becomes skeptical of when the policeman, whom Truman had never met before, calls him by name.
After Meryl breaks down and is taken off the show, Christof officially brings back Truman's father, hoping his presence will keep Truman from trying to leave.
However, he only provides a temporary respite: Truman soon becomes isolated and begins staying alone in his basement after Meryl leaves him.
One night, Truman fools the cameras and escapes the basement undetected via a secret tunnel, forcing Christof to temporarily suspend broadcasting of the show for the first time in its history.
This causes a surge in viewership, with many viewers, including Sylvia, cheering on Truman's escape attempt.

Christof orders every actor and crew member to search the town, even breaking the town's daylight cycle to help in the search.
They find that Truman has overcome his fear of the water and has sailed away from the town in a small boat named Santa Maria.
After restoring the broadcast, Christof orders the show's crew to create a large storm to try to capsize the boat, prompting a heated debate with his superiors over the morality and legality of killing Truman in front of a live audience.
Truman almost drowns, but his determination eventually leads Christof to terminate the storm.
As Truman recovers, the boat reaches the edge of the dome, its bow piercing through the dome's painted sky.
An awe-struck Truman then discovers a flight of stairs nearby, leading to a door marked "EXIT".
As he contemplates leaving his world, Christof speaks directly to Truman via a powerful sound system, trying to persuade him to stay and arguing that there is no more truth in the real world than there is in his own, artificial world.
Truman, after a moment's thought, delivers his catchphrase, "In case I don't see you... good afternoon, good evening, and good night", bows to his audience and steps through the door and into the real world.
The assembled television viewers excitedly celebrate Truman's escape, and Sylvia quickly leaves her apartment to reunite with him.
A network executive orders the crew to cease transmission.
With the show completed, members of Truman's former audience are shown looking for something else to watch.