Sheriff Sam Deeds has little heart for the politics or tough-on-crime policies that his job requires.
Sam got the job because of his father, legendary Sheriff Buddy Deeds who is remembered as fair and just by the citizens of the county.
However, Sam remembers Buddy as a distant parent who cheated on his mother with an unnamed mistress.
Sam is particularly disapproving of efforts by Mayor Hollis Pogue, a former deputy of Buddy's, and business leader Mercedes Cruz, to rename the local courthouse in Buddy's honor.
As a teenager Sam had been in love with Mercedes' daughter Pilar, but the courtship was opposed by both of their parents.
After a chance meeting, Sam and the now-widowed Pilar slowly resume their courtship.

Colonel Delmore Payne has recently arrived in town to oversee the decommissioning of the local military base.
Delmore is the son of Otis "Big O" Payne, a local nightclub owner and leading figure in the area's small African-American community.
The two are estranged because of Otis' serial infidelity and abandonment of Delmore's mother when Delmore was a child.
One day, some of Delmore's men discover a human skeleton on an old shooting range and, nearby, a Masonic ring and a bullet not used by the military.
Sam becomes convinced that the skeleton is that of Charlie Wade, the brutal and corrupt sheriff who had preceded Buddy.
One night years ago, Wade had simply disappeared, apparently absconding with payoff money which he had extorted from local businessmen.

As Sam investigates the events leading up to Wade's apparent murder he learns how the former Sheriff terrorized the local Mexican community, including murdering Mercedes Cruz' husband Eladio, whom he caught smuggling illegal immigrants.
Wade also extorted protection money from local businesses, including the bar where Otis Payne worked.
Sam also learns that Buddy, while popular with the residents of the county, was corrupt in his own way.
Buddy used political patronage to help enrich his friends and allies.
Eventually, Sam comes to believe that Buddy murdered Charlie Wade after a confrontation at the bar where Otis worked.
After he confronts Otis and Hollis with his suspicions, the two reveal the truth.
Wade had shown up at the bar intending to kill Otis, who had talked back to him earlier.
Buddy did confront Wade, but it was Hollis who shot and killed him.
Otis, Hollis and Buddy had buried the body and Buddy had given Wade's payoff money to his mistress, Mercedes Cruz, who used it to start her business.
Sam declines to press charges against Hollis, reasoning that Buddy's reputation can handle the tarnish of being associated with Wade's disappearance.
Returning to Pilar, he explains that her purported father, Eladio Cruz, had died more than nine months before she was born, and that he believes Buddy is her real father.
The two decide to continue their romantic relationship despite the new revelation.