Tom Ripley is a young psychopath[2] struggling to make a living in 1950s New York City using his "talents"—forgery, lying and impersonation.
While working at a party, he is approached by the wealthy shipbuilder Herbert Greenleaf, who believes that Ripley went to Princeton with his son, Dickie.
Greenleaf recruits Ripley to travel to Italy to persuade Dickie to return home to the United States, for which he will pay Ripley $1000.
Ripley accepts the proposal, though he did not really go to Princeton and has never even met Dickie.

Shortly after his arrival in Italy, Ripley concocts an accidental meeting on the beach with Dickie and his fiancée, Marge Sherwood, and quickly insinuates himself into their lives under the pretext of being a fellow jazz lover.
On one of their jaunts, Dickie and Ripley meet Dickie's friend Freddie Miles, who treats Ripley with barely concealed contempt.

A local girl, whom Dickie had impregnated, drowns herself when he refuses to help her financially.
Ripley secretly witnesses their final encounter.
Dickie begins to tire of Ripley, resenting his constant presence and suffocating dependence.
Ripley's own feelings are complicated by his desire to maintain the opulent lifestyle Dickie has afforded him, and by his growing sexual obsession with his new friend.

As a gesture to Ripley, Dickie invites Ripley to sail with him for a last trip to San Remo.
Whilst out to sea together, Dickie lashes out when Ripley confronts him about his behaviour, and a fight ensues during which Ripley strikes Dickie with an oar in a fit of rage.
Ripley beats Dickie to death with the oar.
To conceal the murder, Ripley scuttles the boat with Dickie's body before swimming ashore.

When the hotel concierge mistakes him for Dickie, Ripley realizes he can assume Dickie's identity.
He forges Dickie's signature, modifies his passport and begins living off the allowance provided by Herbert Greenleaf.
He uses Dickie's typewriter to communicate with Marge, making her believe that Dickie has deserted her.
He checks into two separate hotels as himself and as Dickie, passing messages between them via the hotel staff to provide the illusion that Dickie is still alive.

Ripley rents an expensive apartment in Rome and spends a lonely Christmas buying expensive presents for himself.
Freddie visits expecting to find Dickie and is immediately suspicious of Ripley, as the apartment is not furnished in Dickie's style, while Ripley appears to have copied Dickie's dress and manner perfectly.
On his way out, Freddie meets the landlady, who refers to Ripley as "Signor Greenleaf".
Freddie goes back to confront him, but Ripley ambushes and murders him, then disposes of the body.

As a result, Ripley's existence becomes a cat-and-mouse game with the Italian police and Dickie's friends.
His predicament is complicated by the presence of Meredith Logue, an heiress he met upon his arrival in Italy and to whom he had introduced himself as Dickie.
Ripley clears himself by forging a suicide note addressed to Ripley in Dickie's name and moves to Venice.
Marge suspects Ripley's involvement in Dickie's death and confronts him after finding Dickie's rings in Ripley's apartment.
Ripley is about to murder her but is interrupted by a mutual British friend, Peter Smith-Kingsley, who enters the apartment.

Though gaining the trust of Dickie's father, Ripley is disquieted when Mr. Greenleaf hires American private detective Alvin MacCarron to carry out a thorough check.
However, MacCarron reveals to Ripley that Mr. Greenleaf has ordered the investigation be dropped and intends giving Ripley a substantial portion of Dickie's income, with the understanding that certain sordid details about his son's past not be revealed.
Marge is dismayed at the resolution, again accusing Ripley before being taken away by Greenleaf and MacCarron.

Now lovers, Ripley goes on a cruise with Peter, only to discover that Meredith is also on board.
Ripley secretly placates her with a kiss, but Peter notices.
Ripley realizes he cannot keep Peter from discovering that he has been passing himself off as Dickie, as Peter and Meredith know each other and would certainly meet on the cruise.
He cannot solve this dilemma by murdering Meredith, because she is accompanied by her family.
Going to Peter's cabin, Ripley sobs as he strangles Peter in his bed.
He returns to his cabin, where he sits alone.