A U.S. Army librarian, Corporal Joe Bauers, and a prostitute named Rita are selected for a suspended animation experiment which is supposed to last one year.
Joe is average in every way, hence his selection, and Rita's pimp, "Upgrayedd", has been bribed to allow her to take part.
The experiment is forgotten when the officer in charge is arrested for starting a prostitution business.

Five hundred years later, when the average IQ has dropped drastically, Joe and Rita's suspension chambers are unearthed by the collapse of a mountain-sized garbage pile.
Joe's suspension chamber smashes through the wall of the apartment of Frito Pendejo, who throws him out for interrupting his favorite TV show, "Ow!
My Balls!
", where the star is repeatedly hit in his testicles.

Joe, thinking all the unfamiliar sights are the result of a suspended animation hangover, makes his way to a hospital, oblivious to the extreme overtime of the experiment.
The former Washington, D.C. has lost most of its infrastructure, with people living in plastic huts called "domistile".
The human population has become morbidly stupid, speak a degenerate form of English and are profoundly anti-intellectual.
The "#1 movie" is called "Ass", and consists of ninety minutes of a picture of human buttocks with the sounds of farting - the movie won eight Academy Awards, including "Best Screenplay".
Joe is arrested for not having a bar code tattoo to pay for his doctor's appointment, only just realizing the current year and society's state.
At Joe's trial, Frito, still angry about his ruined apartment, turns out to be his lawyer, and his inept representation causes Joe to be sent to prison.
Rita returns to her former profession and realizes that in a world "filled with morons", her job is much easier.

Joe is renamed "Not Sure" by a faulty identity tattooing machine, and takes an IQ test before outsmarting the prison guards and escaping.
Joe returns to Frito's apartment to ask him if a time machine exists to help him return to 2005.
Frito claims to know of one, but agrees to help only after Joe promises to open a bank account under Frito's name in Joe's time, which will be worth billions by 2505.
On the way to find the time machine, Joe and Frito find Rita.

They arrive at a gigantic Costco store, where Frito thinks the time machine can be found.
A tattoo scanner in the store identifies Joe as a fugitive.
He is arrested again and taken to the White House to become Secretary of the Interior, on the grounds that his IQ test identified him as the smartest man alive.
In a speech, President Dwayne Elizondo Mountain Dew Herbert Camacho gives Joe the job of fixing the nation's food shortages, dust bowls, and crippled economy within a week.
Joe discovers that the nation's crops are irrigated with a Gatorade-like sports drink named "Brawndo", whose eponymous parent corporation had purchased the US Food and Drug Administration and Federal Communications Commission, virtually replacing water in every respect.
When Joe has it replaced with water without visibly improving the crops, Brawndo's stock drops to zero and computers lay off half the population, causing mass riots.

Joe is sentenced to die in an unfairly-matched monster truck demolition derby featuring undefeated "Rehabilitation Officer" Beef Supreme.
Rita discovers that Joe's reintroduction of water to the soil has prompted vegetation in the fields.
Frito shows the crops on the stadium's display screen, and Camacho gives Joe a full pardon, appointing him his Vice President.
Joe and Rita find that the so-called time machine that Frito spoke of is in fact a wildly inaccurate history-themed amusement ride.
Following Camacho's retirement, Joe is elected to the presidency.
In his inaugural speech, Joe points out how past civilizations have accomplished feats such as astronomy, naval architecture, the Seven Wonders of the World, and that this society can achieve such heights if people improve themselves and stop ostracizing those who read.
Joe and Rita marry and conceive the world's three smartest children, while Frito, now Joe's Vice President, takes eight wives and fathers thirty-two of the world's most stupid children.

A post-credits scene shows a third suspension chamber releasing Upgrayedd, intent on tracking Rita down.