The film opens with the protagonists, Stan Marsh, Kenny McCormick, Kyle Broflovski and Eric Cartman on their way to the local movie theater to see the new film Terrance and Phillip: Asses of Fire which stars the boys' favorite Canadian comedy duo Terrance and Phillip ("Mountain Town").
The boys are refused entry due to the film being rated R by the MPAA, so they pay a homeless man to accompany them.
The boys learn obscene phrases from the movie ("Uncle Fucka") which makes the other kids in town want to see the picture.

Stan finds his love interest, Wendy, ice-skating with a well-educated boy named Gregory ("Wendy's Song").
Whenever Stan tries to talk to Wendy he throws up, so he asks Chef for advice on how to impress women.
He is told that all he needs to do is to find the clitoris.
Stan does not know what the clitoris is, but nevertheless searches for it throughout the film.

The kids begin cursing in class, so they are sent to see Counselor Mackey who informs their parents.
Learning that the language was from the movie, the parents force the teachers to abandon their previous lesson plans and run a rehabilitation center for the kids to get them to stop swearing ("It's Easy MMMKay").
Afterwards, the boys and the rest of the children see the movie again.
Kenny bets Cartman that he can set his fart on fire like Terrance did in the film.
Kenny immolates himself and dies when the doctors accidentally replace his heart with a baked potato.
The boys are grounded and Kenny, after being refused admission to Heaven for having used bad words, is sent to Hell ("Hell Isn't Good").
He is tormented by Satan and Saddam Hussein who are gay lovers.
The parents of South Park lead a boycott of Terrance and Phillip, and Sheila (Kyle's mom) has Terrance and Phillip arrested for corrupting the minds of America's children ("Blame Canada").
Canada strikes back by bombing the house of the Baldwin Brothers.

Cartman tries to annoy Kyle with a song ("Kyle's Mom's a Bitch") but he is overheard by Sheila.
As a result, he is forcibly implanted with a V-Chip by Dr. Vosknocker which gives Cartman an electric shock every time he swears.
Sheila bullies President Bill Clinton into going to war with Canada, and executing Terrance and Phillip at an upcoming USO show.
Satan declares that if the blood of the two innocent Canadians touches American soil, it will be time for him to rise up and invade the Earth.
Saddam wants to come with him, but Satan is tired of being bossed around by Saddam ("Up There").
Kenny tells Satan to break up with Saddam to which Satan initially agrees, but Saddam wins back Satan with a song ("I Can Change").
Kenny's ghost visits Cartman to warn him of the consequences of executing Terrance and Phillip.
The boys, after failing to convince their parents, decide to take matters into their own hands ("What Would Brian Boitano Do").
They have a secret meeting to talk about how they can save Terrance and Phillip.
They form La Resistance and Gregory tells Stan to meet with a French mercenary kid named "The Mole" to help them infiltrate the location of the USO show ("La Resistance").

While the troops are being entertained by Big Gay Al ("I'm Super"), La Resistance and The Mole infiltrate the USO show, but The Mole is killed by guard dogs after Cartman fails to deactivate the alarms ("The Mole's Reprise").
The remaining three attempt to warn their mothers about what will happen if Terrance and Phillip are killed, but Sheila refuses to listen, and Mr Garrison throws the switch to the electric chair.
A large Canadian force attacks the base and a massive battle ensues between the two armies.
In the confusion, the boys are able to free Terrance and Phillip, though Cartman's V-chip begins to malfunction.
The other moms, seeing the destruction their Mothers Against Canada movement has incited, decide to call it quits and head off to look for their sons.
In the woods, Stan finally finds The Clitoris which tells him that all he needs is confidence.
Stan leads the kids to find Terrance and Phillip who have been cornered by the US army.
La Resistance stands in the way and Kyle persuades the army against killing the two, and shows his mom the hypocrisy and consequences of her plans.

Sheila shoots Terrance and Phillip which fulfils the prophecy and results in Satan and Saddam Hussein rising from Hell.
Saddam immediately tries to usurp Satan's authority, demanding homage and announcing his intent to rule the world himself.
Cartman is able to hold Saddam off by using his malfunctioning V-Chip to generate massive blasts of lightning every time he swears.
With Kenny's encouragement, Satan finally gets rid of Saddam by throwing him back to Hell.
Satan grants Kenny a wish in repayment so Kenny asks for everything to return to how it was before the war, even though it means he will go back to Hell.
He takes off his hood to say goodbye to his friends, revealing his face for the first time.
All the other deceased characters are brought back to life, the Canadians and Americans become friends again, Wendy becomes Stan's girlfriend, everything returns to normal in South Park ("Mountain Town (reprise)"), and instead of returning to Hell, Kenny ascends to Heaven.