The Irish-American brothers Connor and Murphy MacManus attend a Catholic Mass, where the priest mentions the fate of Kitty Genovese.
Later, while celebrating St. Patrick's Day with friends, the two get into a bar brawl with three Russian mobsters who want to close the pub and take over the land it is built on.
The two brothers try to reason with the mobsters, but the latter respond with violence.
The next morning, two of the Russians seek revenge on Connor and Murphy, who kill the mobsters in an act of self-defense.

FBI Agent Paul Smecker is assigned to the case, and finds that the Police and local news reporters see them as heroes.
The MacManus brothers turn themselves in at a police station, where Smecker interviews them.
After they retell their incident to Smecker, he allows them to spend the night in a holding cell to avoid attention from the media.
That night, they receive what appears to be a "calling" from God telling them to hunt down wicked men so that the innocent will flourish.

Connor and Murphy resolve to rid Boston of evil men.
Connor learns of a meeting of Russian syndicate bosses at a hotel from a pager taken from one of the dead Russian mobsters.
Having equipped themselves with weaponry from a local underground gun dealer, the brothers quickly kill all nine Russian mobsters, while Rocco, a friend of the brothers and mob errand boy for local mafia boss Giuseppe "Papa Joe" Yakavetta, is sent in as backup.
During the investigation, Smecker believes that the killings of the Russian mobsters are the result of the beginning of a mob war.

The next day, Rocco learns that he was betrayed by Papa Joe after attempting to have Rocco killed by the Russian mobsters by sending him in with only a six-shot revolver.
That night, the MacManus brothers and Rocco hunt down an underboss of the Yakavetta crime family, Vincenzo Lapazzi, and kill him.
Concerned he may be a target, Papa Joe contacts a hitman, Il Duce (The Duke), to deal with them.
After killing a criminal that Rocco had a personal hatred for, the three men are ambushed by Il Duce.
Although they manage to chase Il Duce away, the three men suffer serious wounds, the most serious being the loss of Rocco's finger.
The three return to a house where after a brief, heated argument, they cauterize each other's wounds.
While watching Smecker give a press conference, Rocco insists that he is a liability and should be taken care of, but the brothers insist no action be taken against him.

Hours later as the police conduct an investigation at the crime scene, the investigation seems futile since the brothers covered their tracks by spraying any blood left behind with ammonia.
However, Smecker happens upon the part of the finger lost by Rocco and decides to do an independent investigation to see who was behind the gun battle.
Smecker is able to track the evidence down to Rocco and his two allies.
This leaves Smecker in a difficult scenario, and struggles with the choice of whether to prosecute the three men, or join them in their cause, as Smecker had become sympathetic towards the brothers' actions.
After getting drunk at a gay bar and subsequently getting advice from a reluctant priest (being held at gunpoint by Rocco, who in turn is held by Conner for threatening the priest), Smecker decides to help the trio.

Later, the brothers and Rocco inform Smecker that they plan to infiltrate the Yakavetta headquarters to finish off the family, but Smecker learns they are walking into a trap.
The brothers are captured, and Rocco is shot and killed by Papa Joe.
As Papa Joe leaves his house, Smecker arrives in drag claiming to have been sent by another soldier.
After fixing his costume, he leaves the bathroom and shoots the man who objected to "her" presence.
Smecker finds the last man with his throat cut and is knocked out shortly after by Il Duce, who does not kill Smecker because he objects to harming women and children.
The brothers manage to escape and kill the soldier sent down.
As the brothers say their family prayer over Rocco, Il Duce enters the room and is prepared to open fire.
However, it is revealed that Il Duce is the brothers' father.
He finishes the prayer and decides to join his two sons in their mission.

Three months later, Papa Joe is sent to trial for a third time.
However, the reporters on-scene anticipate his acquittal.
The brothers and Il Duce, aided by Agent Smecker and the three detectives, infiltrate the trial after sliding their weapons over the metal detector, unmasked, and make a speech stating that they intend to eradicate evil wherever they find it before the three men recite their family prayer and kill Papa Joe.
The media dubs the three as "the Saints", and the movie ends with various candid interviews with the public, reflecting on the question "Are the Saints ultimately good...or evil?"