
Screenplay by Harry Kleiner


December 22, 1964
Rev. 1/18/65
Rev. 2/26/65

(NOTE: All text between the <> symbols was originally underlined.)

(NOTE: Due to the poor quality of the Xerox which I was sold, several of the
pages have a line of description or dialogue cut off at the bottom. I have
labelled these cut-offs where they occur.)

- - -

     FADE IN

1-     
3

3A     EXT. TWA PLANE IN FLIGHT OVER LOS ANGELES - NIGHT

     With the myriad lights of the city beneath it. As the plane lands:

3B     EXT. HUGE HANGAR

     Troop carriers filled with ARMED SOLDIERS are lined up before the
     hangar; several official cars filled with SECRET SERVICE MEN, four
     MOTORCYCLE POLICEMEN, and a caravan of three limousines complete the
     waiting entourage. The CHIEF of the SECRET SERVICE looks toward the
     airfield as the plane is heard taxiing in. He turns and gets into one
     of the limousines, followed by the others.

3C     LONG SHOT - VEHICLES ON AIRFIELD

     Coming toward camera. The plane looms in the f.g. A motorized stairway
     is on the way toward the door of the plane. The vehicles come to a
     halt before the camera.

3D     HIGH ANGLE SHOT - PLANE

     The Armed Soldiers leap out of the troop carriers and form a cordon
     around the plane. The Secret Service Men get out within the circle of
     guards, wait for the door to open.

4     EXT. JET DOOR

     It opens. GRANT steps out: in middle thirties, with the air of a man
     who takes nothing seriously -- his coverup for involvement. He turns
     to help JAN BENES out of the plane. Benes is Mittel European in dress
     and manner. Physically, he is Schweitzer at forty: the leonine head,
     the shock of hair. He carries a battered suitcase. In response to
     Grant's gesture, he precedes him down the stairs.

5     ON THE FIELD

     As Benes reaches the last step, he is greeted by the Chief of the
     Secret Service, who shakes his hand, introduces him to several of his
     subordinates, and leads him to a limousine. Their words are lost in
     the din of jets. About to get into the car, Benes turns and moves back
     quickly to Grant, who is near the bottom of the stairs. Benes extends
     his hand. They shake warmly. Benes moves back toward the limousine.

6     GRANT - ON PLATFORM STAIRS

     He watches as Benes gets into the limousine and the caravan takes off
     with the Motorcycle Escort. The Soldiers are climbing back into the
     troop carriers. Grant starts down the stairs, is lost to view in the
     general activity.

7-     
8

8A     EXT. PICO BOULEVARD

     Down which the cavalcade speeds.

8B     EXT. WAREHOUSE DISTRICT OF STUDIO (BACK LOT)

     The cavalcade races through an area of dark warehouses.

8C     EXT. DESERTED STREET (BACK LOT)

     A rundown area. The cavalcade starts down the street. In the second
     floor of an otherwise dark house, a light is turned on and off, an
     evident signal. PAN DOWN to a heavy car, waiting in a narrow alley
     which opens into the street. Its headlights are off, the sound of its
     engine completely drowned by the concerted roar of the oncoming cars
     and motorcycles. As the cavalcade nears the entrance to the alley, one
     of the motorcyles comes speeding up from the rear of the escort. The
     car in the alleyway starts toward the entrance to the alley.

9-     
15

15A     EXT. ALLEYWAY

     The car starts hurtling forward at full speed. The front of the
     limousine is now visible. A broadside impact seems inevitable.

15B     EXT. ALLEY

     The motorcycle from the rear reaches the limousine as the kamikaze car
     comes hurtling out like a motorized projectile. It hits the motorcycle
     -- a totally unexpected obstruction -- and sends the Policeman flying
     out of scene. It is sufficient to deflect the kamikaze car from its
     deadly aim. The car hits the rear of the limousine, sends it spinning
     out of control. The suicide car, also out of control, careens toward
     the opposite side of the street. The limousine smashes into a
     telephone pole, which brings it to a jolting stop.

16     INT. LIMOUSINE

     The impact throws Benes to the side. His head hits the door handle
     with stunning force, almost knocking him out.

17     EXT. STREET

     The kamikaze car slams directly into a brick wall. It instantly bursts
     into fire, engulfing the Driver. The fitful flames illuminate the
     otherwise dark street.

18     EXT. LIMOUSINE

     The Chief of the Secret Service jumps out of the limousine, waves to a
     sedan to pull up, his shouts lost in the general turmoil. Other Secret
     Service Men are helping the dazed Benes out, shielding him. A sedan
     pulls up beside the limousine.

19     INT. SEDAN

     The Chief of the Secret Service instantly hustles Benes into the rear.
     As he climbs in beside him, and the other Secret Service Men rush to
     the other side to get in, there is the sharp crack of a rifle shot. It
     shatters the rear window of the sedan, narrowly missing Benes. The
     Chief thrusts him onto the floor, sprawls on top of Benes to cover
     him, while shouting to the Driver to get going, his words
     indistinguishable in the confusion of more rifle shots, which sends
     glass and bullets ricocheting through the interior of the sedan.

20     EXT. STREET

     In the eerie light of the burning car, the sedan can be seen speeding
     off, flanked and spearheaded by Motorcycle Police. The Secret Service
     Men and those in the sedans are left behind, firing toward the top
     floor of a nearby bullding from which the rifle fire came.

21     SERIES OF IMPRESSIONISTIC CUTS THROUGH CREDITS

     Without divulging the nature of the hospital, the unconscious Jan
     Benes is seen undergoing a fast and thorough medical probe by
     TECHNICIANS and SPECIALISTS, using the latest equipment. Huge X-ray
     machines, Centrifuges whirling blood samples, EKGs, Encephalographs,
     and a variety of instruments used in cerebral examinations are
     featured. After the LAST CREDIT:

21A     EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT

     It is late. A car is speeding along.

21B     INT. CAR

     Seated in the rear, Grant looks as if he has just been aroused from
     sleep and hustled into the car in a hurry. He is getting into his
     shirt, helped by a MAN beside him. There is a smudge of lipstick on
     his cheek.

                         MAN
               Sorry we had to get you up at this
               hour, Mr. Grant.

                         GRANT
                    (yawning)
               I thought I was on my vacation...
               What's it all about?

                         MAN
               I can't tell you.

                         GRANT
               Where we going?

                         MAN
               I can't tell you that either...
               Excuse me, Mr. Grant, but you've got
               a smudge on your cheek.

     He takes out handkerchief, realizing Grant can't see it.

                         MAN
               May I?

                         GRANT
               Go ahead.

     As Grant finishes buttoning on his shirt, the Man rubs off the
     lipstick. Then he throws the handkerchief out of the car.

                         GRANT
               What'd you do that for?

                         MAN
               I'm married.

                         GRANT
               And she said it was indelible...

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

21C     EXT. DESERTED WAREHOUSE - PARKING AREA - NIGHT

     The car bearing Grant pulls up on an unpaved parking area used for
     loading trucks. Nothing stirs. The DRIVER shuts off the engine and
     lights.

21D     INT. CAR

     The Driver and the Man in the rear get out. As Grant starts to follow:

                         MAN
               You're to stay inside, Mr. Grant.
                    (answering look)
               And wait...

     They close their respective doors, leaving Grant alone in the car,
     looking out mystified into the darkness.

21E     EXT. PARKING AREA

     The two men move off together, until they reach what they obviously
     know is a proscribed distance from the car. Then they stop and look at
     it. For a moment nothing happens, then the ground seemingly starts to
     sink with the car.

21F     INT. CAR

     Grant is startled to see the earth sliding up past the car.

21G     LONG SHOT - ELEVATOR SHAFT

     It now becomes apparent that the car has been resting on what is
     really the top of an elevator shaft. The sides of the shaft now become
     visible: it is seemingly bottomless.

21H     INT. CAR - IN SHAFT

     Grant responds as the elevator finally comes to a halt.

22-     
39

40     INT. BOTTOM OF ELEVATOR SHAFT

     The car is on the earthen platform. Two big doors open. A scooter
     bearing the distinctive insignia of the  appears, driven by an
     M.P. wearing the same emblem. Grant gets out of the car, is waved by
     the M.P. into the scooter. He gets in, is driven away.

41     INT. UNDERGROUND ORDNANCE DEPOT

     They pass through a vast empty area, obviously capable of holding
     large pieces of equipment. The insignia of the  is prominent.

42-     
43

43A     RAMP

     The scooter carrying Grant speeds up the incline to:

44     INT. CENTRAL CLEARANCE AREA

     MALE and FEMALE OFFICERS, all in the uniform of the , are moving
     about busily. As the M.P. and Grant drive across the foyer, Grant eyes
     the Female CMDFs appreciatively. Their uniforms emphasize non-military
     points. The scooter reaches:

45     INT. CLEARANCE DESK

     The OFFICER behind the desk looks up.

                         OFFICER
               Your I.D. card, please.

     Grant takes out a card with only an embossed number. The Officer
     places it into an IDENTIFIER. We see its screen is blank. After a
     moment, Grant's picture flashes on in color, in full view and profile.
     The Officer looks up at Grant, sees it is an exact likeness. He then
     extracts the card. The screen goes blank. He hands Grant the I.D.
     card. The scooter takes off, speeding down a long neon-lit corridor,
     marked off for scooter traffic: four lanes, two in each direction.
     Numerous doors leading to offices open on both sides of the walkways.
     Traffic is heavy. Grant is the only one in mufti. The scooter
     approaches doors over which lights flash:

                    
                    
                    !

     As the scooter nears the Sentry Box, the M.P. on duty hits a switch.
     The steel doors slide open. The scooter goes through into:

46-     
50

51     INT. MEDICAL FOYER

     GENERAL ALAN CARTER is coming out of a door in a hurry. The scooter
     bearing Grant pulls up beside him. Grant gets out. They shake hands.

                         CARTER
               Hello, Grant. Good to see you again.

                         GRANT
               The Pentagon, wasn't it, General?
               Only you weren't in that uniform...

52     INT. OBSERVATION ROOM

     They move to window overlooking the OPERATING ROOM, see the
     unconscious Benes being wheeled in for Surgery. His head is uncovered.
     The full shock of hair stands out against the white pillow. His body
     is draped in the usual manner. A battery of SPECIALISTS and MEDICAL
     ATTENDANTS, MALE and FEMALE, are moving about under the glare of beams
     focused on the Operating Table.

                         GRANT
                    (startled)
               Benes... What the devil happened?

                         CARTER
               The Other Side got to him.

                         GRANT
               How bad off is he?

                         CARTER
               Brain injury.

                         GRANT
               Before or after what he wanted to
               tell you?

                         CARTER
               Before he could breathe a word. He's
               the only scientist who knows the
               answer to what we're after. That's
               why we have to operate --

     He turns away from the window, moves toward another door, with Grant
     following.

                         CARTER
               -- and why we need you.

                         GRANT
               ?

     Bewildered, he follows Carter through door into:

53-     
55

56     INT. MONITORING ROOM

     Carter moves to a panel of many switches and TV screens.

                         GRANT
               I can't even put a Band-Aid on my
               finger.

                         CARTER
               Here's the Surgeon.

     He flicks a switch. On the TV screen appears the INTERIOR OF DUVAL'S
     OFFICE. We see DUVAL, a brain surgeon in the middle forties. He has
     the manner of one totally dedicated to his work. At the moment, he is
     testing a ruby laser, narrowing the beam down to pencil-like thinness.
     Assisting him is CORA PETERSON. In the middle twenties, her
     attractiveness is matched by her efficiency, which is considerable.
     They work together smoothly, the result of long association. It is
     evident neither know they are being observed during:

                         CARTER
               Duval. Dr. Peter Duval. Top brain
               man in the country. Ever hear of
               him?

                         GRANT
               Sorry, but I'm rusty on surgeons.
               Who's the girl?

                         CARTER
               Cora Peterson, his Technical
               Assistant. You'll join Duval and the
               others --

                         GRANT
               What can I do? Except maybe pass
               out?

     Carter flips on another switch. On the TV screen appears the INTERIOR
     OF DR. MICHAELS' OFFICE. It is dominated by big blowups of the
     Circulation System. Michaels is asaembling charts, as if under
     pressure.

                         CARTER'S VOICE
                    (on loudspeaker)
               Mike...

     Michaels moves to a wall, presses a switch. His TV screen shows Grant
     and Carter.

                         MICHAELS
               Yes, Alan.

                         CARTER
               Meet Grant. This is Dr. Michaels,
               Chief of the Medical Section.

                         MICHAELS
               Glad to have you with us, Mr.
               Grant.

                         GRANT
               Wish I knew why.

                         CARTER
               Tell him where he fits in, will you?
               I've got a few things to check out.

     He moves to another panell is seen throwing on switches, monitoring a
     fast series of scenes, all of which are indistinguishable in angle of
     shot. Michaels is seen bustling about, collecting charts during:

                         MICHAELS
               We need you for Security purposes,
               Mr. Grant.

                         GRANT
               At an operation?

                         MICHAELS
               They know they failed to kill Benes.
               Security thinks they'll try again,
               first chance they get. We're afraid
               of medical sabotage -- or surgical
               assassination.

                         GRANT
               Surgical assassination?! But that
               means you suspect --

                         CARTER
                    (re-entering scene)
               [LINE OF DIALOGUE CUT OFF]

                         MICHAELS
               I don't agree. Just because he's
               often difficult --

                         CARTER
               Difficult? He's impossible!

                         MICHAELS
               That's no reason to suspect him of
               disloyalty.

                         GRANT
               But why take the chance, when there
               must be other doctors?

                         CARTER
               We have no choice. Duval's the most
               skillful brain surgeon in the
               country, and he's right here, at
               hand.

                         GRANT
               I wouldn't know if he's trying to
               save him or kill him.

                         MICHAELS
               I'll be standing by.  know.

                         CARTER
                    (to Grant)
               And no matter what happens, you're
               to take orders  from Dr.
               Michaels, understand?

                         GRANT
               Right, sir.

                         CARTER
               Come along, they'll be operating
               shortly.
                    (hand on switch)
               See you later, Mike.

     Michaels waves. Carter switches off the monitor. He moves to a door.
     Grant follows.

57-     
61

62     INT. MEDICAL FOYER

     As they emerge:

                         GRANT
               His technician okay? In addition to
               the Looks Department?

                         CARTER
               No question of her loyalty.

     As Carter leads Grant to the scooter and they take their places, Grant
     looks at the big  insignia on the floor.

                         GRANT
               I don't mean to be inquisitive. But
               this  -- for all I know it
               could stand for ?

                         CARTER
                    (matter-of-fact)
               .

                         GRANT
                    (blankly)
               Say that again?

     Carter starts the scooter and they drive through the big doors leading
     out of the Medical Foyer.

63-     
74

75     INT. CORRIDOR - TRAVELING WITH SCOOTER

                         CARTER
               We can reduce anything down to any
               size we want. People -- ships --
               tanks --planes...

                         GRANT
               General, I've heard some wild ones.
               But this takes it.

                         CARTER
               We can shrink an Army -- with all
               its equipment -- and put it in a
               bottle cap. That's why we call it
               .

                         GRANT
                    (with silent whistle)
               If the Other Side ever gets hold of
               a thing like that...

                         CARTER
               They have...
                    (answering look)
               But we've both got the same problem
               -- lack or control. We can only keep
               things Miniaturized for exactly
               sixty minutes. Arter that,
               everything starts growing back to
               its original size.

     They arrive at the root of the escalator, leave the scooter and board
     the moving stairway.

76     WITH ESCALATOR

     As they ride up:

                         GRANT
               I assume Benes knows how to control
               it.

                         CARTER
               That's right. He wanted us to have
               the secret, and not them. Which is
               why they tried to kill him.

                         GRANT
               They're bound to try again. No
               wonder they want me to stand by
               during the operation.

                         CARTER
               And take a little trip with them...

                         GRANT
                    (bewildered)
               Trip? Where to?

                         CARTER
                    (matter-of-fact)
               Well, the only way to reach that
               clot is from inside the Brain. So
               we've decided to put a Surgical Team
               and a Crew into a submarine --
               reduce it way down in size, and
               inject it into an Artery --

                         GRANT
                    (jolted)
               You mean  going along?

                         CARTER
               As part of the Crew.

                         GRANT
               Wait a minute! They can't shrink
               !

                         CARTER
                    (assuringly)
               Grant, our Miniaturizer can shrink
               anything.

                         GRANT
               But I don't want to be
               Miniaturized -- !

                         CARTER
               It's only for an hour --

                         GRANT
               Not even for a minute! General
               Carter, sir, I'd like you to
               reconsider your choice. I'm just not
               the right man for a mission of this
               kind.

     He starts walking against the direction of the escalator, thus
     remaining in the same place.

                         CARTER
                    (taking his arm)
               Come on, Grant. You're going to a
               Briefing.

     They have reached the top of the escalator. Nearby is a door marked:

                         

     Carter opens the door, waves him in.

77     INT. CONFERENCE ROOM

     Grant and Carter enter in the middle of what is evidently a heated
     argument between COLONEL DONALD REID and Duval. Reid is in the uniform
     of the , with a cadaceus which indicates he is the Medical
     Division. Also present is CAPTAIN BILL OWENS, in Naval uniform, and
     Michaels. Cora stands beside Duval, rather abashed, since she is the
     cause of the vociferous disagreement.

                         DUVAL
                    (irascibly)
               Miss Peterson volunteered to come
               along!

                         REID
               So did every male Technician in the
               Unit. A woman has no place on a
               mission of this kind.

                         DUVAL
                    (brooking no rebuttal)
               I insist on taking my Technician.

                         REID
               You'll take whoever  assign!

                         DUVAL
                    (angrily)
               Don't tell me whom I'm to work with!
               Not on this operation or any other!
               I'll do what  think is best,
               without any interference from
               anyone!

     Before Reid can reply:

                         MICHAELS
                    (diplomatically)
               Dr. Duval has relied on Miss
               Peterson for years. And since she
               wants to come along, I'm sure it's
               for the best, Dr. Reid.

                         REID
                    (making best of defeat)
               I don't agree with you -- but since
               you're in charge, you can do as you
               please. But I want to go on record
               as being against it.

                         CARTER
               Grant -- Colonel Reid, Operation
               Commander.
                    (they nod; of Michaels)
               You've met our Medical Chief.

     Grant and Michaels shake hands, in effect their first meeting vis-a-
     vis.

                         CARTER
               This is Dr. Duval, our Head Surgeon.

                         GRANT
               Oh yes, I've heard of you, Doctor.

     With the attitude of the completely dedicated professional, Duval
     throws him a cursory glance, nods, sits down, quickly opens up a
     folder containing the latest lab reports on Benes, which he scans
     during:

                         MICHAELS
               Miss Peterson, his Technical
               Assistant.

                         GRANT
                    (the charmer)
               How are you, Miss Peterson?

     She responds with an impersonal nod, sits down beside Duval and opens
     up her sheaf of lab reports, handing him the pertinent ones during:

                         CARTER
               This is Captain Bill Owens, designer
               of an experimental submarine for the
               Navy's 'Oceanographic Research and
               Development Program.'

     As they shake hands:

                         GRANT
               Out of your element, aren't you,
               Captain?

                         OWENS
               Sort of.

                         GRANT
               That makes two of us.

                         CARTER
               Grant's uniquely qualified for this
               mission. He's a Communications
               Expert and was a Frogman during the
               War. Besides, he brought Benes into
               this country, and the fewer people
               who know about him, the better. At
               any rate, you'll find Grant
               invaluable, should anything go wrong
               once you're under way.
                    (to Reid)
               Okay, Don.

                         REID
               Here's the overall Target Area...

     Reid presses a switch. A large anatomical map of a Brain flashes on a
     central screen. The ganglia and dendrites form a network, much like
     intersecting roads, in a detailed war map. The clot is a solid
     obstruction in the center. Grid lines cross the map vertically and
     horizontally as points of reference. The entire projection has a
     three-dimensional effect, since it is drawn in perspective.

                         DUVAL
               Benes' brain...near as we can map it
               stereotaxically...

     He switches on a flashlight arrow, points to the clot.

                         DUVAL
               The clot's right here...

     He switches off the arrow and quickly flashes it on again, this time
     on the edges of the map. The arrow now probes and with draws from the
     base, center and top of the brain, like the animated technique of
     showing an attack which is repulsed at the perimeter.

                         DUVAL
               Impossible to get at --
                    (arrow makes vertical
                    penetration to give
                    impression of wide cut)
               -- without damage to the intervening
               tissue...which would prove fatal to
               Benes.

     He presses another switch. A startling OVERLAY OF THE BLOOD VESSELS OF
     THE HEAD AND NECK appears over the anatomical drawing of the brain,
     encasing it. The red-colored arteries and blue-colored veins form such
     an intricate maze, that finding one's way through it seems virtually
     impossible.

                         DUVAL
               The only way to reach it is via the
               Arterial System.

     Grant looks at Cora. She is busy making notes from the projected map.
     Owens is showing no undue reaction, apparently having been apprised.

                         REID
               Phase One calls for Miniaturizing a
               submarine, with Crew and Surgical
               Team, and injecting it into the
               Carotid Artery.

     He points with the arrow to the exact spot.

                         OWENS
               How small would that be?

                         REID
               About the size of a microbe.

                         GRANT
               Colonel, I'm sure that's quite a
               comfortable size, but --

                         REID
               Reduced proportionately, you won't
               find it too strange --

                         GRANT
               All in a day's work, sure. But I was
               thinking of the speed of the
               Circulatory System.

                         MICHAELS
               About forty miles an hour.

                         GRANT
               Well, it seems to me if you reduce a
               ship to microscopic size -- and the
               stream remains constant -- we'd take
               quite a beating.

                         OWENS
                    (very worried)
               I hope you've taken that into
               account --

                         CARTER
               We have.

                         REID
               You won't be going anywhere near
               that fast. We're putting Benes in
               deep Hypothermia -- that is,
               freezing him low as compatible with
               human life. It'll slow down his
               heartbeat, Circulation, and all
               other physical processes.

     Owens begins polishing his glasses, indicating his inner qualms.

                         OWENS
               Even so, because of our size -- I
               mean lack of it -- we'll still be
               cruising mighty fast. We'll be
               smashed to bits if there's any
               turbulence --

                         MICHAELS
                    (pointing with flashing
                    arrow)
               The only danger of turbulence is in
               the Heart -- and we're not going
               through it.
                    (flashing arrow)
               Once in the Carotid Artery, we'll
               remain in the Arterial System...
               until we reach the point of
               damage --
                    (flashes around clot)
               -- where Dr. Duval will attempt to
               dissolve the clot with a laser beam.
               After the operation, we'll return by
               way of the Venous System --
                    (coursing down with
                    arrow)
               -- until we reach the base of the
               neck --
                    (arrow stops)
               -- where we'll be removed right here
               -- with a hypodermic.

                         GRANT
               How will you know where the sub is,
               at any particular moment?

                         REID
               Dr. Michaels -- our Circulatory
               Specialist -- will serve as your
               Navigator. He'll know just where you
               are. And you can communicate
               directly with us, by wireless.
               Besides, the sub is nuclear-powered,
               and we'll be tracking it just as we
               would any radio-active tracer.

                         CARTER
               There'll be a team of Surgeons
               standing by. We're prepared to
               remove you immediately, should
               anything go wrong. In any event, you
               must be out within sixty minutes.
               After that, you'll be in danger of
               attack.

                         GRANT
               Attack? Who -- or should I say what
               from?

                         REID
               Benes' natural defenses. White
               Corpuscles -- Antibodies. Once you
               begin to grow -- and become a menace
               to the body -- you'll trigger them
               off...
                         MICHAELS
               With all the unknown factors in the
               body, I still say risking five lives
               for one is something we should
               reconsider --

                         CARTER
               We understand your concern, but
               we've made our decision, Doctor. Any
               questions? Anybody?

                         GRANT
               Just one, General...

                         CARTER
               Yes?

                         GRANT
               Where can I get a cab back to town?

     No one responds to the attempted levity. Carter rises.

                         CARTER
                    (to all)
               Proceed to the Sterilization
               Section.

     Carter and Reid move out of the room through the door. The others go
     out through another.

78-     
80

80A     INT. CORRIDOR

     The five appear and stop before a cylindrical door with handles
     similar to those in a vault, to give the effect of a sealed chamber
     within. Over the door flashes:

                    

     The five reach the door. An electronic beam swings it open
     automatically. They start in. As Grant moves past the sign:

                         GRANT
               How much can a man give to his
               country?

     The door swings automatically shut behind him.

81     

82     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     A huge plastic bubble in the form of a truncated semicircle, with
     glass panels overlooking areas not visible in the angle of the shot.
     TECNICIANS in the uniform of the  are seated at a desk-level
     bank of monitors, on a slightly raised platform. They are checking the
     numerous TV screens for focus. A cacophony of B-Beeps from the screens
     underscores the sense of last-minute preparations. A COMMUNICATIONS
     AIDE wearing headphones and throat microphone moves about. Carter
     crosses to the Miniaturization Control Panel. Reid goes to the window
     overlooking the OPERATING ROOM. Below, he can see Benes on the
     operating table, a towel over his head. Surgical Aides are making a
     last-minute check of the Thermal Blanket which encases him in three
     sections. Reid presses a button on the wall beside the window.

                         REID
               Make the final preparations...

     They begin to remove the towel from Benes' head. Reid turns away from
     the window and crosses to the window overlooking the MAIN OPS ROOM.
     With him we see a huge room, bisected by a floor-to-ceiling detailed
     map of the entire ARTERIAL and VENOUS SYSTEM from rib-cage to skull,
     to simulate the body of Benes in a prone position. Grid lines mark off
     areas in relation to true North and South. TECHNICIANS are bustling
     about with charts and reports which are coming in through headphones,
     telephones, teletypes, batteries of Computers, Oscillographs, etc.
     Encircling the entire floor are glass-fronted booths which enclose the
     SPECIALISTS' POSTS. Reid turns to a Technician at the Master Control
     Section.

                         REID
                    (to Technician)
               Heart.

     The Technician flips on a switch. On a TV screen appears the INTERIOR
     OF THE HEART POST, one of the glass-enclosed booths looking out onto
     the MAIN OPS ROOM. Like all the Specialists Posts, it is concerned
     with its particular area and nothing else: Blowups of the Heart in
     great detail, X-rays of Benes' heart, its beat being recorded
     electronically on a huge EKG chart which fills one wall and is in
     constant operation via remote control. The HEART SPECIALIST is
     standing before the EKG chart, while a TECHNICIAN twirls dials at a
     panel. Reid can be seen in the closed TV circuit in the Heart Post.
     (As in all subsequent TV communications.)

                         REID
               How's it look, Henry?

                         HEART SPECIALIST
                    (over TV)
               Holding steady at thirty-two per
               minute.

                         REID
                    (to another Technician)
               Respiration.

     The Technician flips on another switch. On a TV screen appears the
     INTERIOR OF THE RESPIRATION POST. Here everything relates only to the
     lungs. In addition to cut-away sections where each small area assumes
     the proportions of a detailed war map, there are banks of Benes'
     X-rays, lit up in panels, plus immense calibrated charts labeled
     INHALATION and EXHALATION, on which the rate is being electronically
     recorded.

                         REID
               How's he doing, Jack?

     The Lung Specialist is seen glancing at a chart.

                         LUNG SPECIALIST
                    (over TV)
               Respiration is now six per minute...
               I wouldn't take him down any
               further.

     Another Technician flips switch in response to:

                         REID
               Hypothermia...

     On a TV screen appears the INTERIOR OF THE HYPOTHERMIA POST, its walls
     festooned with dials recording bodily temperature, before which
     TECHNICIANS sit watching and making minute adjustments. The
     HYPOTHERMIA SPECIALIST moves along, keeping a sharp eye on the various
     zones labeled: CIRCULATORY, RESPIRATORY, CARDIAC, RENAL, etc.

                         REID
               Any problems, Dr. Sawyer?

                         HYPOTHERMIA SPECIALIST
                    (over TV)
               No sir. We're holding him at twenty-
               eight degrees Centigrade.

     Carter enters, moves to the Control Section to join Reid.

                         CARTER
               Where do we stand?

                         REID
               Medical's ready.

     The Communications Aide with headphones moves up to them.

                         COMMUNICATIONS AIDE
               They're in the Sterilization
               Corridor --

83-     
88

89     INT. STERILIZATION CORRIDOR

     Bathed in eerie ultra-violet light. The five are passing down the
     corridor, in single file. All are dressed in khaki uniforms. Grant
     moves ahead of Cora. As they reach a vestibule at the end, the door
     swings open automatically. Grant starts to help Cora over the
     threshold.

                         CORA
               Don't touch me. I'm sterile.

     Grant grins. They move into:

90     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     A huge parquet area, composed of white octagonal modules. In the
     center is the Zero Module, in red. Standing over it is a fifty-foot
     craft. The angle and the distance renders its details indeterminate.
     WHITE-CLAD TECHNICIANS wearing rubber gloves are seen working about
     it. As the five come into the room:

                         CARTER'S VOICE
                    (on loudspeaker)
               Please board and check all your
               equipment immediately.

     They look up, see:

91     CARTER AND REID AT WINDOW OF CONTROL TOWER - THEIR P.O.V.

     They can be seen, high above.

92     DOWN INTO MINIATURIZATION ROOM - FROM P.O.V. CONTROL TOWER

     Carter and Reid look down at the tiny figures below as they move
     toward:

93     THE PROTEUS - OVER THE ZERO MODULE

     With Grant and the others, we now get the full impact of the
     experimental sub at close range: sleek lines from the intake in the
     nose sweep over a transparent plastic bubble atop the structure, and
     then down to taper off at the stern under which are double vents. The
     sub is supported by cradles, allowing it to stand free of the module.
     Plastic windows in the bow afford the occupants a full view. A white-
     Clad Technician hands Owens a small lead box.

                         TECHNICIAN
               Here's the particle, sir.

                         OWENS
               Everything aboard?

                         TECHNICIAN
               All squared away, sir.

     Carefully holding the lead box, Owens starts up the ladder, followed
     by Duval, then Michaels. Grant waves Cora to precede him. They reach
     the monk's steps above the ladder, climb upward, then one by one
     disappear through the hatch. Grant is the last one in.

94     INT. PROTEUS

     With Grant we see the interior. There are plastic windows in the bow.
     In the center is the Navigation and Communications kiosk, which
     contains charts, reports, and a wireless set. Four swivel chairs are
     spaced about the kiosk. Behind it, a ladder leads to the Conning
     Bubble above. Set in the rear of the kiosk is a watertight door
     leading into the escape hatch. Behind the kiosk is a Lab and Storage
     Section, not visible at the moment. No power of any kind is on --
     lights or air-conditioning. The interior is illuminated by the light
     coming in through the plastic windows. Duval, Michaels and Cora
     instantly move to the kiosk and busy themselves examining the charts
     and reports in the numerous pigeonholes. Owens hands the lead box to
     Grant.

                         OWENS
               Hold this...

     Grant takes the lead box. Owens removes a crank from the tool box,
     inserts it into a hole in a circular trap door which reads:

                         
                         

     Owens turns the crank. The lid of the trap door opens. A hollow cradle
     comes up. Owens then opens the lead box by undoing two butterfly
     screws. He removes the Seed Cage from within the box.

                         GRANT
                    (not relishing thought)
               Atomic fuel?

                         OWENS
               Nothing you could see with the naked
               eye. But there's a microscopic
               radio-active particle inside.

     He puts the Seed Cage on the cradle and lowers it back beneath the
     floor, by reversing the crank. During the above:

                         GRANT
               If it's no military secret, how can
               a sub run on a microscopic particle?

                         OWENS
               They can't reduce nuclear fuel. But
               once the Reactor's Miniaturized --
               along with the submarine -- a
               microscopic particle should emit
               enough energy to activate it.

                         GRANT
               That's cutting it mighty close --
               for a perfect fit.

                         OWENS
               It should work -- theoretically. If
               it doesn't, the mission's off. The
               craft's nuclear-powered. Except for
               your wireless.

     The lid of the trap door is now level with the floor. Owens removes
     the crank, and taking the lead box from Grant, he puts both back into
     the tool box during:

                         GRANT
                    (looking about;
                    admiringly)
               All in all, quite a canoe...

                         OWENS
               Designed for Piscatorial Research --
               the Spawning Habits of Deep Sea
               Fish.

                         GRANT
               Remind me to ask you about the love
               life of an octupus.

     He moves to the wireless, sees Cora smile as she goes through the aft
     door. Grant begins tapping out a message.

95-     
96

97     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     A WIRELESS TECHNICIAN is writing down the message heard coming in. He
     tears it off his pad, hands it to the Communications Aide, who takes
     it to Carter.

                         COMMUNICATIONS AIDE
               Test message from the Proteus, sir.
                    (reading)
               'Miss Peterson has smiled.'

                         REID
               That's an auspicious sign.

                         CARTER
               Confirm receiving.

98     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant is at the wireless, logging the incoming message. In the
     meantime, Owens finishes battening down the entrance hatch. Duval is
     studying medical reports, Michaels is spreading out the first of the
     Navigation Charts, a very detailed map of the Vascular System of the
     Neck and Head. As Owens crosses on the way to the ladder leading to
     the Bubble:

                         MICHAELS
               Captain, how will you be able to
               follow my charts --
                    (of Bubble)
               --from up there?

                         OWENS
               On the Repeater.

     Michaels looks at him blankly. Owens flips a button up and down of a
     hooded device which is trained on the chart area. The small screen
     remains blank.

                         OWENS
               Once the power's on, we'll be in
               direct touch. Come, I'll show you.

     Michaels moves with him to the ladder leading to the Bubble. Owens
     stops, waves him to continue. Michaels goes up the ladder.

98A     INT. CONNING BUBBLE

     An ultra-sophisticated set of controls, consisting of a push-button
     panel and an airplane-like steering wheel. The plastic affords a 360
     degree view of the Miniaturization Room. There is room for only one
     person. Owens remains on the ladder, so that only his head is within
     the Bubble. Owens points to the identical Repeater on the Panel.

                         OWENS
               That's it...

                         MICHAELS
                    (of controls;
                    ironically)
               Looks simple to operate.

     He sits down in the single seat.

98B     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant is moving aft. With him we hear:

                         OWENS'VOICE
                    (from Bubble; with pride)
               It actually is, although the
               controls are highly sophisticated.
               There's a button for everything --

     Grant enters:

99     INT. LAB AND STORAGE SECTION

     Originally designed for marine research, it still shows some of its
     pre-adaptation structure: there is a series of glass-fronted
     compartments, now labeled ANTIBIOTICS, ANTI-COAGULANTS, COAGULANTS,
     MED OXY, etc. A wide counter runs the length of the compartment on one
     side, suitable for working on specimens. A Ruby Laser sits on the
     counter at the end, its plastic cover removed and to the side. At the
     other is a piece of metal on a metal base. As Grant enters, he sees
     Cora working with a set of very small tools, making minute adjustments
     on the laser.

                         GRANT
               Bet you're pretty handy around the
               house... Can you cook?

                         CORA
                    (indicating oxy
                    containers)
               We're pushing oxygen today.

                         GRANT
               I'll take some Laughing Gas, ma'am.

                         CORA
                    (surprised)
               You sound as if you're not looking
               forward to it.

                         GRANT
               Well, it's not exactly a pleasure
               cruise.

                         CORA
               I think it's the most exciting --
                    (with awe)
               We're going to see things no one
               ever saw before. The actual physical
               process of Life itself -- not
               something under a microscope... Just
               think of it --

                         GRANT
               That's the trouble. I am. Being
               shrunk...

                         CORA
               You may learn to like it.

     She has finished adjusting the laser. She now lifts Grant's hand away
     from the metal disc.

                         CORA
               Excuse me...

     She presses a button on the laser. With startling suddenness, a thin
     pencil of light shoots out, cutting a hole through the metal
     instantaneously. Had Grant's hand remained, the beam would have gone
     right through it.

                         GRANT
               For a nice young lady, you play with
               the damndest toys, Miss Peterson...

     She adjusts the intensity and thickness of the laser beam, each new
     one cutting different size holes through the metal during:

                         CORA
                    (with smile)
               That'll teach you where to keep your
               hand.

                         GRANT
               Now I know...

     As she drills metal through again:

                         GRANT
               That could be quite a lethal
               weapon... It could kill, not cure.

                         CORA
               Not in the hands of a great surgeon
               like Dr. Duval. The beam of this
               laser can be regulated to one
               millionth of a millimeter.

                         GRANT
               I understand you've been Dr. Duval's
               Assistant for quite some time... He
               must've snatched you out of the
               cradle.

                         CORA
               I've been with him since I got out
               of school. He brought me into the
               CMDF, over five years ago.

                         GRANT
               A long time, with one man.

                         CORA
               Not working for someone like Dr.
               Duval --

     She breaks off, realizing she may have revealed her feelings. She
     switches off the laser, averts looking at Grant as she fits the
     plastic cover over it. Into the silence, the wireless is heard as a
     message comes in. Grant starts back into:

100     INT. PROTEUS

     Thoughtful, listening to the wireless. Michaels is coming down from
     the Bubble. As Grant reaches the wireless, the tapping comes to an
     end.

                         GRANT
                    (loud enough for all)
               'Prepare for Miniaturization'...

                         OWENS
               Positions, please. And strap
               yourselves in.

     Grant and Duval begin putting on their safety harnesses, which are
     attached to their respective seats. Cora appears out of the aft
     compartment. Michaels moves toward it, a check-list in hand. He
     disappears within. In the meantime, Owens is busy tightening every
     lock-screw in evidence.

101     AT THE KIOSK

     Cora stops before Duval, tries to help him with the final stages of
     getting into the harness.

                         DUVAL
               It's all right -- I can manage.

     She starts to leave, stops.

                         CORA
                    (with difficulty)
               Doctor...

                         DUVAL
                    (busy with harness)
               Yes, Cora.

                         CORA
               I -- I want to say...

     She falters as he looks at her.

                         DUVAL
               What is it?
                    (anxiously)
               Anything wrong?

                         CORA
                    (the moment gone)
               I just wanted to thank you for
               taking me along.

                         DUVAL
               Thank you for volunteering.

     She turns abruptly, gets into one of the seats and starts putting on
     her harness. In the meantime, Michaels appears from the aft
     compartment, checking off a few items on the bottom of his list as he
     moves quickly to the kiosk. He places the list into a pigeonhole, sits
     down, quickly straps on his harness.

102     WITH OWENS

     Everything battened down, he now checks Cora's harness, then does the
     same with Duvalls and Michaels'. All are now sweating. Finished with
     Grant's harness, Owens moves quickly up the kiosk ladder leading to:

103     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens drops into the seat, and with the speed of much practise, slips
     into his harness.

104     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant and the others hear:

                         OWENS' VOICE
                    (from above, in Bubble)
               Okay, Mr. Grant. Tell them we're
               ready.

     As Grant begins to tap out message:

105     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     The message is coming in. The Wireless Technician writes it down, rips
     it off the pad and the Communications Aide reads:

                         COMMUNICATIONS AIDE
               'Proteus reports all secured.'

                         CARTER
                    (to Technician)
               Miniaturizer...

     A TECHNICIAN at a panel marked  throws a switch.

106     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     What appeared to be a solid wall at the end now slowly starts to slide
     apart, gradually revealing:

107     THE MINIATURIZER

     A huge, honeycombed disc, suspended from a rail running along the
     ceiling, begins to roll silently toward the sub.

108     INT. PROTEUS

     As Grant gets his first sight at what is going to shrink him, he
     reacts quite convinced. He glances at Duval, Michaels and Cora. They,
     too, are looking at the oncoming Miniaturizer, but with none of his
     response. They apparently have seen it before.

109     P.O.V. MINIATURIZATION ROOM - FROM CONTROL TOWER

     Reid and Carter are looking down at the M1niaturizer as it rolls
     slowly toward the sub. When the disc is directly over the sub, the
     Techn1cian at the  panel throws a switch, instantly stopping the
     Min1aturizer.

                         REID
               All stations stand by...

     A Technician presses a button. There is the SOUND of a warning claxon.

110     MAIN OPS ROOM - P.O.V.

     The last minute scurry, as all take their respective places. The GRID
     OFFICER is seen moving up to the big center grid map of the Arterial
     System with something in hand which we can't distinguish as yet.

110A-     CUTS OF TECHNICIANS IN MAIN OPS ROOM
110D
     Now all are mobile, waiting at their machines.

110E     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Reid is now before the monitors, all of which are on. Carter turns
     from the window overlooking the Miniaturization Room, looks at Reid.
     The latter nods in silent affirmal. Carter turns to the Communications
     Aide.

                         CARTER
               Commence Miniaturization.

                         COMMUNICATIONS AIDE
                    (into throat mike)
               Commence Miniaturization.

111     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     The bottom of the Miniaturizer begins to glow with increasing
     intensity. Simultaneously, the modules beneath the sub also begin to
     light up with equal intensity. Gradually, the entire sub is encased in
     a blaze of incandescence.

112     INT. PROTEUS

     The lack of ventilation and the tension is causing Grant and the
     others to sweat profusely.

113     INT. CONNING BUBBLE

     From his vantage point, Owens can see the light of the Miniaturizer
     reach the peak of intensity.

114     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     A light flashes on the  panel. With Carter we see a grid on the
     Technician's Control Panel as it becomes activated. Two blips from the
     co-ordinates marked  and  flash on. Reid remains
     at the monitors, eyes on the charts which keep flashing on, sending
     Benes' temperature, heartbeat, etc.

115     

116     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     The light is bathing the entire sub in an iridescent glow. There is a
     dull hum.

117     INT. PROTEUS

     With Grant we get the first  realization that the sub is
     shrinking: the proportions of what he can see in the Miniaturization
     Room are changing. He looks about him in a moment of wonder.

118     DUVAL AND MICHAELS

     From their vantage points at the kiosk tower, they can see a little
     more of the outside than Grant. They respond like scientists: with
     intense absorption in the process.

119     CORA

     She responds enthralled.

120     OWENS

     Up in the Bubble, he gets the unlimited view -- and he is transfiXed.
     For now the Miniaturizer stretches far, far up, and the honeycombed
     light from the Miniaturizer disc seems as distant as stars. The walls
     of the room are barely discernible in the distance.

121     BACK TO GRANT

     The final subjective reaction as with him we see:

122     CONTROL TOWER - GRANT'S P.O.V.

     Far, far up, the windows of the tower have merged into a tiny ray of
     light.

123     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM - P.O.V. CONTROL TOWER

     Now with Carter we get the first  view of the shrinking
     Proteus as they watch it shrink down, down, down in the center of the
     Zero Module, which we see is laced with intersecting lines. When the
     sub reaches the size of a capsule about the length of a centimeter,
     Carter looks down at the grid on the Technician's Control Panel. He
     sees the blips on the co-ordinates approach closer and closer until
     they finally merge into one. He looks back at:

124     

125     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM - P.O.V. CONTROL TOWER

     The lights at the bottom of the Miniaturizer's disc go off. The hum
     stops. At this distance, the sub looks like a speck on the floor.

                         CARTER
               Elevate Zero Module.

126     THE ZERO MODULE - MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     It starts to rise from the floor with the capsule-sub.

127     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant and the others respond as the vast parquet floor with its maze
     of hexagonal lines seemingly stretching into infinity suddenly begins
     dropping beneath them. The effect is that of becoming air-borne.

128     INT. BUBBLE

     With Owens we get the unobstructed view: everything is falling far,
     far below. The bottom of the Miniaturizer seems an infinite distance
     above.

129     THE ZERO MODULE

     Still rising slowly.

130     THE ZERO MODULE - P.O.V. FROM INTERIOR CONTROL TOWER

     The capsule-sub is now about four feet off the floor, on the Module.
     The Zero Module comes to a stop.

131     INT. PROTEUS - ON MODULE

     All are sweating more profusely, showing increasing discomfort.

132     

133     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Carter turns from the window, looks at Reid, who glances up from
     viewing the monitors.

                         REID
               Okay to proceed.

                         CARTER
               Phase Two.

134     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     A panel slides open and a precision handling device is rolled in by
     several WHITE-CLAD TECHNICIANS. A NURSE follows, in uniform. The
     machine is fourteen feet high, consists of pulleys on a tripod, which
     control a vertical arm angling down from a horizontal extensor. Two
     sets of mechanical fingers are on the vertical arm, about a foot
     apart. Together they act as clamps. All adjustments are controlled by
     various worm-gears. As the tall tripod rolls by, on the side of the
     base we see stamped: MIN PRECISION HANDLING, under the insignia of the
     .

135     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant and the others react to the first sight of the oncoming  in relation to their own reduced size: a button is immense, a
     shoe -- although far down from their position on the Zero Module -- is
     long as a city street, the heads gargantuan atop skyscraper-tall
     bodies. The precision handling machine itself is beyond recognition,
     owing to its vast proportions.

136     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     The tripod is eased to a stop so that its vertical arm is directly
     over the Proteus on the Module. A TECHNICIAN at the gear box starts
     turning a worm-gear control, which lowers the vertical arm toward the
     capsule-sub.

137     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant reacts as huge steel fingers at the bottom of the arm slowly
     slide into view. He glances at Cora and the others. They apparently
     know what to expect, but watch with the interest of scientists. The
     mechanical fingers slowly disappear beneath the sub.

138     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     The Technician maneuvers the mechanical fingers carefully so that they
     slip under the cradle of the sub, in effect becoming its holding fork.
     Once the steel fingers are in place, the Zero Module sinks below the
     floor from view, while the tripod holding the Proteus is eased back.

138A     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     A Technician presses a switch.

138B     CYLINDRICAL AMPULE - MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     A glass ampule about as tall and round as a small silo starts coming
     up out of the floor on the Zero Module. The transparent container is
     filled with a clear liquid, two-thirds to the top. It rests on an
     encircling cork base. The lettering at the base reads: SALINE
     SOLUTION.

139     

140     CYLINDRICAL AMPULE - P.0.V. PROTEUS

     Grant and the others react to what appears to be something big as an
     illuminating gas storage tank -- albeit filled with liquid.

141     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM - P.O.V. CONTROL TOWER

     With Carter we see the tripod with the Proteus brought to a stop close
     to the saline solution.

142-     
143

144     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     The Technician at the tripod moves it so that the claw holding the
     Proteus is directly over the water in the ampule.

145     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant and the others react as they see themselves suspended over what
     appears to be a huge lake far below, bounded by cylindrical glass
     walls in the distance. Reflected light bounces off the top of the
     water, with iridescent effect. Suddenly they begin to descend. Grant
     and the others react as they seem to be dropping at suicidal speed
     toward the water which is rushing up to meet them as if they were in a
     dive-bomber. Then as the surface nears:

146     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     Within the high walls of the ampule, the capsule-sub is deposited into
     the water. Despite the delicate handling:

147     INT. PROTEUS

     It 'hits' the water, jarring all within, as at a launching from
     drydock.

148     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     The Technician now begins to maneuver the mechanical fingers out from
     under the sub.

149     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant and the others see the gigantic steel fingers sliding past the
     plastic windows.

150     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     The lifting fork is now disengaged from the sub, which floats free in
     the ampule.

151     INT. BUBBLE

     The sub is rocking none too gently on the surface of the vast glass-
     enclosed 'lake.' As Owens sees the ends of the immense prongs move
     past the bubble and continue upward:

                         OWENS
                    (down toward kiosk)
               We've got to submerge manually.
               Grant, open Valves One and Two on
               the bulkhead.

152     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant slips out of his harness and moves quickly to a butterfly valve
     marked  in the bulkhead. On the opposite side of the sub is a
     duplicate valve marked . As Grant begins turning Valve One:

                         DUVAL
               Here -- I'll get the other.

     Duval gets out of his harness and moves to the second valve. Grant
     watches him covertly while working at his own valve.

152A     MICHAELS

     As he sees the fluid rising toward the bow windows, he begins to
     respond with increasing fear.

153     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens' attention is on the gauges in the panel before him. They begin
     recording PRESSURE and DEPTH. The surface of the saline solution
     begins to flood upward.

154     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant and Duval at the valves, now fully open. Through the outer
     windows the water appears to move upward in relation to the sub, which
     continues submerging.

154A     MICHAELS

     Face sweating, his eyes reflect growing irrational terror as he stares
     at the rising fluid bubbling over the bow windows.

155     INT. BUBBLE

     As the depth gauges near the <30> mark:

                         OWENS
               Close valves.

156     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant and Duval twist the valves shut. When both are done:

                         GRANT
               Valves closed.

                         OWENS'VOICE
                    (from Bubble)
               Right. That's all for the present.

     As Grant and Duval move to their seats, Michaels opens his harness,
     slips out and hangs onto the bulkhead ledge, gasping for breath.

                         DUVAL
               Doctor, what's wrong?

                         MICHAELS
               I can't breathe!... I've got to get
               out!

                         DUVAL
               It's too late now. We must go on.

                         GRANT
               You'll feel better once we're
               underway.

     Michaels hangs on tighter to the bulkhead ledge, trying to control
     himself.

                         MICHAELS
                    (gasping)
               I -- I'm sorry... Claustrophia --
               buried alive -- two days -- air raid
               -- England... Thought I'd gotten
               over it. Please -- forgive me... I'm
               quite all right now...

     He sinks back into his seat. Grant helps him with his harness.

157     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     We now see the sub for the first time beneath the surface of the
     saline solution: a small capsule submerged at an even keel, about one-
     fourth of the way down in the huge transparent container. The Modules
     on which the ampule rests now return to floor level.

158     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM - P.O.V. CONTROL TOWER

     From his vantage point above, Carter can barely see the capsule in the
     ampule. He glances at Reid, who looks up from the monitors and nods.

                         CARTER
                    (to Technician)
               Phase Three.

     The Technician presses a button on the  panel, activating the
      grid. The two blips flash on again, moving down the 
     and  co-ordinates.

159     

160     THE MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     Instantly the disc of the Miniaturizer trained on the ampule begins to
     glow again. The light is reflected on the entire surface of the saline
     solution. The low hum resumes.

161     INT. PROTEUS

     Again we first get the  view of the shrinking process:
     Grant and the others see everything rushing away into an immensity of
     distance. And all the time the reflected light which has illuminated
     the interior of the sub is diminishing. We see the reason:

162     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     The  view: the ampule has shrunk way below the
     Miniaturizer. Its far smaller size reflects only a spark of light. The
     sub is now only a particle, shrinking with the ampule. The Technicians
     and Nurse look on, grouped at the tripod which is beyond the range of
     the Miniaturizer.

162A     EXT. PROTEUS

     As the sub shrinks to invisibility, disappearing before our eyes:

163     EXT. AMPULE AND PROTEUS

     In its now fully reduced size, we see the ampule is actually a glass
     cylinder about two inches long and half-an-inch in diameter.

164     MIN GRID - P.O.V. CONTROL TOWER

     With Carter we see the two blips merge and hold. Instantly the lights
     in the Miniaturizer go off. The hum stops. A loud CLICK is heard. All
     look up at:

165     CLOSEUP - ELECTRIC MINUTE RECORDER

     A big <60> flashes on, and holds. (NOTE: We will see the same kind of
     clock, in varying sizes, in every set, flashing on the passage of time
     in , from now to the end of the picture.)

166     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM - P.O.V. CONTROL TOWER

     The Zero Module now begins to rise above floor level. The ampule, on
     its reduced cork base, appears very tiny from this height.

                         GARTER
                    (to Wireless Operator)
               Inform Proteus they are at Full
               Reduction.

     The Technician taps out the Proteus' call letters. All wait, tense,
     for a response, as the tapping stops. They react, relieved, as they
     hear:

167     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant tapping out reply. Now, for the first time, we get the
      view of what all see from their various vantage points,
     distorted through liquid and the glass walls. The light is dim, all
     are finding it very hard to breathe in the unventilated craft. When
     the incoming message stops:

                         GRANT
               [LINE OF DIALOGUE CUT OFF]

168     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens glances at his wrist watch. Then he flips a switch. He watches
     the buttons on his panel. None light up. There is an anxious moment.
     Then the myriad lights on the panel begin to glow dully. The Minute
     Recorder on the panel begins to flash <59>.

169     INT. PROTEUS

     The lights become brighter. Cora, Duval and Michaels react with
     relief. The ventilators come on, permitting all to breathe easier.

170     INT. BUBBLE

     The buttons on the panel are now aglow. Owens makes a test: he touches
     a button which spins his seat, with the control panel before him, in a
     complete 360 degree turn within the Bubble.

171     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     After a brief message is heard coming in:

                         COMMUNICATIONS AIDE
               Proteus On-Power.

     With relief, Carter turns to Reid.

                         CARTER
               It's all yours, Don.

     Reid moves from the monitors, presses a button on the Control Section.

172     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     As the Technicians at the tripod hear:

                         REID'S VOICE
                    (over loudspeaker)
               Phase Four.

     The Technicians move the tripod so that the vertical arm is brought
     directly over the ampule and lowered, until the two sets of mechanical
     fingers clamp the cylinder firmly. Then the ampule is raised a few
     inches from its position on the module. The reduced cork base still
     encases the bottom. The Nurse and a Technician move to the ampule. He
     holds a small instrument case.

173     AT AMPULE

     When they reach the clamped ampule, the Technician opens the case. The
     Nurse takes out a plunger. Very carefully, she begins to insert it
     into the top of the ampule without disturbing the liquid. She then
     gently pulls away the cork remaining at the base of the ampule,
     revealing a small opening in the center. But owing to the pressure
     above, the liquid does not run out. She takes a needle out of the case
     and carefully fits it into the nipple. We now see the ampule is
     actually a hypodermic syringe.

174     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM - P.O.V. CONTROL TOWER

     Ried and Carter watch as the tripod is carefully wheeled across the
     room.

175     THE HYPODERMIC NEEDLE - MOVING SHOT

     The saline solution in the cylinder is sloshing slightly, despite the
     great care of those moving it.

176     INT. PROTEUS

     The sub is being rocked, causing everyone to hold on for support.

177     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens is trying to keep an even keel with his controls, now in full
     operation.

178     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     As two big doors slide open for the tripod to pass through:

179     EXTREME CLOSEUP - RADIAL LINES

     What appears to be a myriad number of radial lines crossing each other
     to form tiny squares over a domed surface is revealed to be:

180     BENES' HEAD

     Now shaved clean, the head is grid-marked for Stereo-encephalatomic
     measurements. In the background, the tripod is seen being wheeled in.

181     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     Moving with the hypodermic needle clamped in the tripod, we now get
     the full impact of the set: the floor is marked off for True North and
     South, with latitudinal and longitudinal lines. The modern operating
     table is set so that Benes' head corresponds with the exact position
     of the Arterial Head on the big grid map in the Main Ops Room. Benes
     is lying under a thermal blanket, covered up to the collarbone. Thin
     rubber pipes lead out from the blanket to the Central Thermal Unit
     under the operating table, out of the way of everyone. A TEAM OF
     GAUZE-MASKED SURGEONS AND ASSISTANTS stand grouped around the
     unconscious patient. In a semi-circle at the head of the bed, beyond
     the head, is a series of SMALL TRACKING DEVICES resembling radio-
     telescopes. They are remotely controlled. The Minute Recorder, in a
     prominent position now changes from <59> to <58>.

182     INT. OPERATING ROOM - P.O.V. CONTROL TOWER

     Reid and Carter are looking on. The Communications Aide stands at his
     side. They see the clamped hypo rolled up to the side of Benes' head
     and brought to a gentle stop.

183     BENES AND HYPO

     A small circle marks the exact spot of the injection. A SURGICAL AIDE
     swabs the area with alcohol.

184     CLOSE SHOT - ACTIVATOR

     It is brought down mechanically by use of worm-gears on the tripod
     toward the plunger, engaging it.

185     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Reid, watching the proceedings below:

                         REID
                    (to Wireless Operator)
               Contact Proteus --

186     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant takes down the message as it comes in. When message stops:

                         GRANT
                    (loud enough for Owens
                    in Bubble)
               Stand by for injection!

     Suddenly the sub begins to rock hard. All hold on.

187     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens is manipulating controls, trying to keep an even keel.

188     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     The hypodermic is being angled by the precision gears of the tripod
     for the exact degree of injection. When this is accomplished:

189     BIG CLOSEUP - BENES' NECK

     The point of the needle approaches the exact spot, which we now see is
     marked off by a tiny cross within the circle on the Artery.

190     TECHNICIAN AT TRIPOD

     He presses the mechanical activator which sends the needle plunging
     into Benes' neck O.S.

191     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Instantly a warning klaxon goes off. It keeps on for a few seconds,
     then stops. Into the silence:

                         REID
               Tracking.

     A Technician flips a switch.

192     INT. TRACKING POST - ON MAIN MONITOR IN CONTROL TOWER

     Four TECHNICIANS are seated before their radar screens, which show
     flat electronic lines, except one. This is picking up a blip.

192A     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     A Technician at the Control Panel throws on a switch. Another TV
     screen next to the Main Monitor goes on, revealing:

192B     CLOSE SHOT - BLIP ON TV SCREEN

     Duplicating the blip seen in the Tracking Post. We see the blip is
     heading down, at an angle identical with that of the hypo. CAMERA
     MOVES IN on the blip, and keeps moving until it fills our entire
     screen and becomes:

193     EXT. PROTEUS - WITHIN THE HYPO

     Diving at a terrific speed, steeply angled like the hypo, through the
     clear saline solution.

194     INT. PROTEUS

     All hold on as if riding a roller coaster at its steepest plunge.
     Suddenly all goes pitch-dark.

195     INT. BUBBLE

     Only the buttons are glowing, and the Minute Recorder, which now reads
     <57>. Owens throws a switch. Through the plastic windows the
     headlights of the sub are seen coming on. They pierce the darkness
     sufficiently to catch the side of the steel wall of the needle, which
     is rushing past at a tremendous speed, giving the effect of an
     enclosed channel. The beams gradually reveal:

196     HOLE OF NEEDLE - P.O.V. BUBBLE

     A small aperture in the distance, barely visible.

196A     HOLE OF NEEDLE - P.O.V. PRINCIPALS IN KIOSK

     Grant and the others see the opening at the end of the needle becoming
     bigger and bigger, apparently rushing toward them with great speed.

196B     EXT. END OF NEEDLE

     It fills the screen, an immense aperture in relation to the tiny sub
     which suddenly comes shooting out of it.

197-     
198

199     MAIN OPS ROOM - P.O.V. CONTROL TOWER

     Reid and Carter observe the Grid Officer, wearing headphones and
     throat mike, move up to the Arterial Map with a tiny replica of the
     Proteus. He places it in the center or the huge channel in the neck,
     which depicts the Carotid Artery. The little sub is held magnetically
     on the grid. The Minute Recorder now reads <56>. Reid turns from the
     window, moves to the Map Case, which contains the same assortment of
     charts as in the sub's kiosk. Reid takes out an OVERLAY MAP OF THE
     HEAD AND NECK. He places it on a Radarscope. The blip shows it is
     traveling up the Carotid Artery.

200     LONG SHOT - ESTABLISHING - PROTEUS IN ARTERY

     The headbeams of the speeding sub reveal a world of dazzling color and
     beauty: the Arterial Stream. The walls of the vast amber-colored
     chamber are lost in the distance. Now the screen is filled with a
     floating wonderland: huge red corpuscles, whirling globules,
     platelets, particles, minuscule fragments drift with the stream,
     reflecting the entire spectrum of color.

201     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens is slowing down the sub. He gazes in awe at:

202     ARTERIAL ELEMENTS - THROUGH BUBBLE

     As the Proteus moves through the swirling conglomerations, the
     elements are parted, flow over the sub, bounce about it, forming new
     fluid galaxies in a universe of amber. And each grouping and
     regrouping, every mass and disc, though loosely linked, has a . Thus the Corpuscular drift, the bouncing particles, the
     parting and the merging achieve a majestic choreography lyrical in
     quality, a fugue of motion.

203     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant and Cora, strapped in their seats, look on enthralled at the
     sheer beauty of the dancing wonder-world visible through the windows.
     Duval appears equally moved. Michaels observes with more clinical
     detachment.

204     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens has now slowed down the sub so that it moves slightly faster
     than the current, thus enabling him to maintain maneuverability.

                         OWENS
               You may unfasten your belts...

205     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant, Cora and Duval quickly slip out of their harnesses, move to the
     bow for a maximum view of the scene. Michaels remains at the console,
     checking their course on the Neck and Head chart.

205A     EXT. PROTEUS - HEAD-ON SHOT

     Approaching camera, with the three people looking out of the bow
     windows in speechless wonder at what they behold.

206     

206A     INT. PROTEUS - SHOOTING OVER THEIR BACKS

     For a moment the three gaze in silent awe at the dancing drift
     directly outside: nuclei are clearly visible in the cells; variegated
     tiny organisms sweep like cosmic dust through the orbits of the
     spinning globules. Their first sight of the interior world, with its
     beauty and rhythmic splendor has affected them deeply. Finally
     breaking the silence:

                         DUVAL
                    (quietly, as he looks
                    on)
               The Medieval Philosophers were
               right...  is the center of the
               Universe... We stand in the middle
               of Infinity, between Outer and Inner
               Space. And there's no limit to
               either.

                         GRANT
               You mean Inner Space is endless?

                         DUVAL
               Everything can be divided in half,
               no matter how minute.

     As the concept sinks in, Grant turns to look out again. Cora has never
     taken her eyes off what she sees through the bow windows.
                         CORA
               I never...never imagined it could be
               anything...like this.

                         GRANT
                    (equally awed)
               I always thought it was nothing but
               red.

                         DUVAL
               Only to the naked eye.
                    (indicating)
               Those corpuscles -- carrying oxygen
               -- give the stream its color. But
               the rest of the plasma's very much
               like sea water. An ocean of life...

                         GRANT
               Quite a piece of plumbing.

                         MICHAELS
               End-to-end, a hundred thousand miles
               long.

     Grant reacts. Of something up ahead:

                         CORA
               Dr. Duval -- what could those be?

     The sub is suddenly engulfed by a mass of very tiny discs in chain-
     like combinations, which blot out the rest of the stream.

                         DUVAL
                    (now the scientist)
               Never saw . Not even under an
               electron-mrcroscope.

                         CORA
               They're much smaller than
               bacteria...

                         MICHAELS
               Looks like the molecular structure
               of proteins.

                         DUVAL
                    (flatly)
               I don't agree. I think we ought to
               stop and take a sample.

                         MICHAELS
               That's not the purpose of this
               mission.
                    (up at Owens)
               Captain -- keep a straight course --
               until you're in the clear.

207     INT. BUBBLE

     Steering by instruments, Owens remains on course, the massed discs
     obstructing his view. Suddenly they float off, revealing:

                         OWENS
               Arterial Wall to the right!

     With him we see:

208     LONG SHOT - ARTERIAL WALL

     Barely visible in the spill of light, a smooth endothelial wall is
     seen in the distance.

209     INT. PROTEUS

     Michaels consults his chart, brings the co-ordinates into place over
     two Arteries.

                         MICHAELS
                    (up at Bubble)
               What's our speed?

                         OWENS' VOICE
                    (from Bubble)
               Fifteen knots.

     Michaels makes a rapid calculation with his slide rule.

                         MICHAELS
               We should reach the Branching Artery
               in two minutes.

     He switches on the REPEATER.

210     INT. BUBBLE

     The same REPEATER device is now active on the panel, reflecting the
     chart on the console below, with Michaels' navigational calibrators
     pointing to the intersect1ng Artery.

                         MICHAELS' VOICE
                    (from below)
               Keep the Wall at its present
               distance when you turn. That'll
               bring you safely into the middle of
               the Branch.

211     EXT. PROTEUS - IN ARTERY

     It cruises for a moment through the dazzling elements, the Arterial
     Wall in the distance. Then suddenly the sub accelerates and veers off
     course toward the Arterial Wall.

212     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens reacts, tries to slow down the sub and steer it back into the
     middle of the channel. But the speed increases, and the sub continues
     being swept toward the Wall.

213     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant and the others respond to the ever-increasing speed and the
     nearing Wall. They turn to Michaels, who, too, is aware of the change.

                         MICHAELS
               Captain -- correct your course --
               and speed.

214     INT. BUBBLE

     Increasingly concerned as he works the controls and glances at the
     gauges:

                         OWENS
               She won't respond! We're in some
               sort of current!

215     INT. PROTEUS

     Duval moves to Michaels.

                         DUVAL
                    (bewildered)
               But that isn't possible.

                         MICHAELS
               Not in a sealed vessel like an
               Artery.
                    (up at Owens)
               Captain -- something must be wrong
               with your controls!

                         OWENS'VOICE
                    (from Bubble)
               No -- it's a current! It's too
               strong -- I can't break out of it!

216     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens is trying to gain control of the sub. It begins to vibrate.
     Startled, Owens peers out, trying to determine the cause, but the
     beams reveal nothing ahead but an iridescent swirl of Arterial
     elements which bounce back the light. The buffeting increases rapidly.
     The Arterial Wall is clearly visible to the side, getting closer.

217     INT. PROTEUS - IN BOW

     Grant and Cora exchange startled looks as the membranes of the
     Arterial Wall suddenly become visible in the spill of light from the
     headbeams: its connective strands arch Gothic-like, lost in the
     darkness of the vaulted enclosure. The vibrations have now increased
     so that all must hold onto stanchions for support.

218     DUVAL AND MICHAELS

     Gripping the console for support. Through the plastic windows to the
     side they can see the Arterial Wall looming with menacing closeness.
     They look at each other, unable to fathom the cause of the now-greater
     vibrations.

219     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens is desperately trying to avoid a head-on collision with the
     Wall, but the sub won't respond to any of his manipulations. The Wall
     looms closer, the buffeting is worse.

220     INT. PROTEUS

     Smashing into the Wall directly ahead seems inevitable. Now the
     connective strands almost fill the windows. Cora closes her eyes, in
     anticipation of the fatal impact. And just when a collision appears
     inevitable, the sub veers, narrowly missing the cable-like strands,
     thick enough to support a bridge.

221     INT. BUBBLE - PARALLEL TO ARTERIAL WALL

     With Owens we see the sub swept close alongside the Wall. It is
     evident the craft is out of his control, and that whatever averted the
     collision has nothing to do with his attempt to steer it. The swirling
     mass of particles up ahead begins to part. The vibrations [LINE OF
     DESCRIPTION CUT OFF]

222     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant reacts as he sees the now-visible area ahead.

                         GRANT
               Whirlpool!... Strap yourselves in!

     He grabs Cora, and against the buffeting, moves quickly to help her
     toward her seat. Duval and Michaels instantly take their seats at the
     console, begin getting into their harnesses.

223     LONG SHOT - THE WHIRLPOOL - P.O.V. BUBBLE

     Owens is appalled as in the distance, in the center of the channel, he
     sees what appears to be an immense liquid centrifuge rotating at great
     speed, the Arterial elements within it whipped about like the contents
     of a mixmaster. Now the buffeting is reaching its climax. The sub is
     inexorably approaching the rim of the whirlpool, with Owens
     desperately trying to steer away from it.

224     INT. PROTEUS

     Duval and Michaels are in their harnesses.

225     GRANT AND CORA

     Slowed up by the intense buffeting, Grant is now helping Cora into her
     seat. But before he can assist her into the harness, the sub is caught
     in the whirlpool. The instant effect is that of a Carnival Whip. The
     centrifugal force flings Cora out of her seat against the bulkhead.
     Grant is spun around and slammed against the opposite part of the
     bulkhead, and then onto the floor, with stunning impact.

226     DUVAL AND MICHAELS

     Pinned back in their seats, unable to get out and help as they see:

227     GRANT AND CORA

     Helpless in the whiplike rotation, Cora is thrust from the bulkhead
     onto the floor. Grant manages to grab a stanchion, hold on. With his
     free hand he reaches out for Cora, now prone on the floor. She extends
     her hand, but a foot separates them. They desperately reach out to
     each other as the centrifugal force pulls them farther and farther
     apart... Grant takes the only possible chance or reaching her: he lets
     go of the stanchion which sends him slamming against the base of the
     seat. He grips the leg of the seat with one hand and grabs Cora's
     waist with the other, just in time to prevent her from again being
     flung against the bulkhead. She holds onto him with all her strength.
     Grant strains to maintain his grip on the leg of the seat with his
     free hand, which in effect holds them both against the centrifugal
     whipping.

228     INT. BUBBLE - TO INCLUDE WHIRLPOOL

     Owens, too, is thrust back in his seat, powerless to move. The sub is
     completely at the mercy of the whirlpool. A gauge on the panel is
     registering in circles.

229     EXT. PROTEUS IN WHIRLPOOL - LONG SHOT

     Rotating at great speed, a tiny piece of flotsam caught in a
     cataclysmic force which is inexorably spinning it toward the vortex.

230     INT. SUB - CUTS OF PRINCIPALS

     Reacting to the ROAR of the massive turbulence and the whirling
     stream, which is seen through the windows. The centrifugal force keeps
     them pinned to their positions, with Grant holding onto Cora as
     before.

231     EXT. PROTEUS - NEARING VORTEX

     It is whipped around and down in the final circle -- and disappears
     through the rapidly rotating center...

232     INT. PROTEUS

     The steeply angled dive causes greater strain on Grant as he keeps his
     grip on Cora. Duval and Michaels are now thrust forward as if they
     were in a gondola of a shoot-the-shoots making its steepest descent.

233     INT. BUBBLE

     In a similarly forward-tilted position, with Owens we see the stream
     whipping by in a seemingly endless drop. And then ahead there suddenly
     appears:

234     LONG SHOT - FISSURE IN ARTERIAL WALL - P.O.V. BUBBLE

     An immense crack through which some red corpuscles are streaming in an
     eddy.

235     INT. PROTEUS

     From their prone positions on the floor, Grant and Cora react to the
     huge fissure looming through the windows. Duval and Michaels exchange
     looks, suddenly realizing what it signifies. Now the immense crack is
     directly ahead.

236     EXT. PROTEUS - FISSURE FROM WITHIN VEIN

     As the tiny sub is swept out into the stream, where the blue
     corpuscles are. Through the crack, a stream of red corpuscles are
     whipping by on the other side. The angle of the dive now becomes less
     oblique.

237     INT. BUBBLE

     The sub is caught in a less turbulent current, which results in its
     gradually losing its angle and speed, permitting Owens to steer it
     away from the center toward a more placid area.

238     INT. PROTEUS

     The sub is now level, moving much slower. Exhausted from the ordeal,
     Grant sees it is safe to let go of Cora. He helps her rise. She stares
     dazed at the bluish stream. Duval and Michaels, equally spent, begin
     to get out of their harnesses.

238A     EXTREME CLOSE SHOT - BENES' NECK

     PAN over to the Miniature Tracking Devices.

238B     TWO RADAR SCREENS - INT. TRACKING POST - MAIN OPS ROOM

     The blip goes from one machine to the other, where it doesn't belong.
     The Tracking Technician reacts, instantly presses a button.

239     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     A warning buzz from a TV Monitor. Reid and Carter respond to the
     SOUND. The Communications Aide comes over to them.

                         COMMUNICATIONS AIDE
               Proteus Off Course, sir. They've
               picked up a blip in Quadrant 23,
               Level B. Reid moves quickly to the
               window overlooking the Main
               Operations Room, followed by Carter.

240     

241     MAIN OPS ROOM - P.O.V. CONTROL TOWER

     Both see the Grid Officer below move the replica of the sub from the
     Carotid Artery to another channel near it within a quadrant marked 23.
     The channel is outlined in blue.

                         REID
                    (jolted)
               They've crossed over into the
               Jugular Vein!

                         CARTER
               That can't be -- there's no direct
               connection between the two --

                         REID
               Normally not. Unless it's an
               Arterio-Venous Fistula --

242     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant, Cora and Duval are grouped around Michaels at the chart. In the
     distance, the endothelial walls of the Jugular Vein are vaguely
     visible.

                         GRANT
                    (blankly)
               A what?

                         MICHAELS
               A forced joining of an Artery and
               Vein. Must've happened when Benes
               was hurt.

                         DUVAL
               Yes, a fistula too small to show up
               on the X-rays.

                         CORA
               But big enough for us...

     In the stream outside, the bluish corpuscles are increasing in number.

                         MICHAELS
                    (up at Bubble)
               Captain -- head back into the
               Artery.

243     INT. BUBBLE

     As if it were a suicidal order:

                         OWENS
                    (brooking no argument)
               We could never fight that current
               it's physically impossible.

                         MICHAELS' VOICE
                    (from below)
               Then don't drift down further.

                         OWENS
               I'll do what I can.

     As he manipulates the controls:

244     INT. PROTEUS

                         GRANT
               If we can't go back, is there an
               alternate route?

                         MICHAELS
               Yes... We can go forward on this
               course, but it means going directly
               through the Heart.

245     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens is appalled as he sees the route being traced on the Repeater,
     down the Jugular Vein toward the Heart. Before it can go any further:

                         OWENS
                    (alarmed)
               We can't do that! We decided in the
               Briefing -- the craft could never
               stand the turbulence!

246     INT. PROTEUS

     Michaels looks up from the chart, to the others.

                         MICHAELS
               Yes, it would be a hundred times
               worse than the whirlpool.

     The others respond with grim realization of what it portends.

                         GRANT
               That's just dandy. We can't go
               forward -- and we can't go back.

                         MICHAELS
               I'm afraid there's only one thing we
               can do. Call off the mission.

                         CORA
                    (emotionally)
               Doctor...you can't mean that! Not
               when we've come this far. And if we
               give up, there'll be no way of
               saving Mr. Benes --

                         DUVAL
               Dr. Michaels is right. We have no
               choice.

                         MICHAELS
                    (to Grant)
               Tell them to take us out.

                         GRANT
               If there's any chance --

                         MICHAELS
                    (an order)
               Request removal, Mr. Grant.

     As Grant moves to the wireless:

247     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Carter and Reid are looking down into the MAIN OPS ROOM at the replica
     of the Proteus. It is in the same position as last seen in the Jugular
     Vein on the big grid.

                         REID
               But we have no choice! We've got, to
               take them out!

                         CARTER
                    (adamantly)
               No...

     He turns away from the window as a message is heard coming in. With
     seeming unawareness of the incoming message, Carter looks at the
     Minute Recorder, It is flashing <51>.

                         CARTER
               We still have fifty-one minutes.
               Leave them in.

                         REID
               But it's hopeless! They can't go
               back and they can't go on. I tell
               you there's nothing else we can do
               but remove them!

                         CARTER
                    (the final word)
               Not until the very last second. We
               must think of something... Something
               to save the situation.

     The incoming message stops. The Communications Aide takes it from the
     Wireless Technician.

                         COMMUNICATIONS AIDE
                    (reading)
               Proteus reports trapped in Venous
               System. Requests removal, sir.

                         REID
               Well, there it is... What do I tell
               them, General?

     Carter turns his back on him, moves to the window, stands looking down
     on the OPERATING ROOM. The scene below is almost a tableau, except for
     the moving Miniature Tracking Devices. The Surgical Team around the
     table stands watching, waiting. Benes lies motionless. Reid joins
     Carter. As they both look down at the patient, whose only chance of
     life is now in their hands:

                         CARTER
                    (finally)
               Doctor...without killing him -- how
               long could we stop his heart?

                         REID
               The less time, the better.

                         CARTER
               I know that. But what's the maximum?

                         REID
               In his comatose state...and
               everything slowed down...no more
               than sixty seconds.

     Carter takes out a slide rule.

                         CARTER
                    (as he figures)
               At topspeed...and adjusting distance
               for Degree of Miniaturization --
                    (getting answer)
               The sub should get through the Heart
               in fifty-seven seconds.

                         REID
               That would give us only three
               seconds to revive him...

                         CARTER
               What are the problems in stopping
               the Heart?

                         REID
               Nothing -- compared to starting it
               up again.

     From the window, Carter can see the big Minute Recorder in the
     Operating Room flashing from <51> to <50>.

                         CARTER
               We're wasting time, Colonel. Let's
               get on with it.

     The decision made, Reid takes command.

                         REID
                    (to Technician)
               Heart.

     Technician presses monitor button. As Carter moves to the
     Communications Aide, the HEART POST flashes on the TV screen.

                         REID
                    (to Heart Post)
                we're stopping
               the Heart.

                         CARTER
                    (to Communications Aide)
               Message to Proteus.

     Now both give their orders simultaneously. As Reid speaks, we can see
     the HEART POST swing into action on the TV screen: the big X-rays of
     Benes light up on panels, a CATHODE TUBE recording his heartbeat
     becomes activated. The Heart Specialist and several Heart Technicians
     are seen leaving the POST. Meanwhile, the Communications Aide is
     taking down Carter's message for transmission.

               CARTER                         REID
     You are heading in the                An Arterio-Venous Fistula has
     opposite direction of the          forced the Proteus into the
     Target Area, as a result of          Venous System. At this moment,
     crossing over into the Jugular     it is in the Lateral Cervical
     Vein. Since you are in a          Region, anterior to the
     closed system, you will have          anterior to the Cervical
     to go through the Heart and          Plexus. The haemo-dynamics of
     proceed on your mission by          the Venous System are at
     taking an alternate route. We          absolutely minimum levels. It
     will stop Benes' Heart for          would be fatal to further
     exactly sixty seconds.               decrease the rate of flow by
     Maintaining maximum speed, you     Hypothermic means. In order to
     will get through in fifty-          minimize the turbulence, we
     seven seconds. That will give          will have to arrest the Heart.
     us three seconds to spare in          The Proteus will proceed to
     which to revive him. Stand by          the entrance of the Right
     for exact instructions --          Atrium --

248-     
250

251     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     Reid's Voice is heard as the Heart Technicians rig Benes for electric
     shock with a Cardio-Verter. They are removing the top third of the
     Thermal Blanket. When his chest is exposed, they apply electrodes to
     it. Then the Technicians take their places at the various Cardiac
     Instruments which are recording the pulse and configuration of the
     heartbeat. The last is visible on the big cathode tube of the
     Cardioscope, a replica of which was seen in the Heart Post.

251A     INT. PROTEUS

     All are listening to Grant reading the end of the message.

                         GRANT
               -- at which point the Heart will be
               stopped by electric shock.

                         CORA
                    (into the silence)
               And if it should take more time to
               get through --

                         DUVAL
                    (flatly)
               We can't take a second more.

                         MICHAELS
                    (up at Bubble)
               Captain -- head in the d1rection of
               the flow and drift with it.

     He takes out a detailed Cardiac Map.

252     INT. BUBBLE

     Through the Repeater, Owens can see Michaels spread the Cardiac Map.
     He reacts to its great complexity.

                         OWENS
               I'll never find my way through that.

                         MICHAELS
               I'll guide you, once we're in the
               Heart.

253     EXT. PROTEUS

     Drifting down the Jugular Vein.

254     

255     INT. MAIN OPS ROOM

     The Grid Officer can be seen moving the replica of the Proteus down
     the Jugular Vein.

255A     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Carter and Reid are looking down at Benes in the OPERATING ROOM.

256     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     Benes is now rigged for electric shock. The Tracking Devices are
     concentrated on his chest. The Heart Specialist looks at the
     Cardioscope Screen. The big screen registers the beat of the Heart
     with a cathode-tube effect, each pulsation causing an electronic
     pattern. They are very slow, regular. The Heart Specialist nods to one
     of his Technicians who wears headphones. The latter presses a button.

257-     
260

261     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     A warning buzzer SOUNDS. The Communications Aide moves up to Reid and
     Carter at the Tracking Station Monitor and Radarscope.

                         COMMUNICATIONS AIDE
               Ready for Cardiac Shock...

     Reid nods, acknowledging the message. As he removes the map off the
     Radarscope, Carter takes out an OVERLAY MAP OF THE HEART from the Map
     Case and places it on the Radarscope. The blip is seen progressing
     down the Vena Cava, leading to the entrance of the Heart.

                         REID
                    (pressing button)
               Stand by.

     Carter takes out a stop watch.

262     

263     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant and the others respond as they begin to hear the SOUND of a
     distant boom-boom, slow and measured. It has an ominous effect. It
     quickly gets louder during:

                         CORA
                    (in awe)
               Listen...the Heart.

                         MICHAELS
               Yes...slowed down agreat deal.

                         GRANT
               Sounds like heavy artillery...

                         MICHAELS
               It lays down quite a barrage in a
               lifetime. Forty million beats.

                         DUVAL
                    (quietly)
               And every beat separates a man from
               [LINE OF DIALOGUE CUT OFF]

264     EXT. PROTEUS - IN VENA CAVA

     The SOUND of the Heart is now very loud, each measured boom like heavy
     artillery in a relentless barrage. The headbeams illuminate the long
     passage, the walls of which are lost to view.

265     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant and the others look on ahead, responding to the now-deafening
     beat, which increases as they near the source in the bluish channel.
     And then they react with wonder as they see:

266     LONG SHOT - TRICUSPID VALVE - P.O.V. PROTEUS

     In the distance, three huge membranes are billowing open, with
     tendrils resembling supporting strands of parachutes.

267     EXT. PROTEUS - IN THE ATRIUM

     The parachute-like membranes are at the end of the Atrium, the
     entrance of which the sub now approaches. As the membranes blossom
     fully, with a lovely effect, a big aperture is revealed. The dilation
     causes a big forward surge of the stream.

268     INT. PROTEUS

     All hold onto whatever is at hand as the sub is swept onward, rocking
     with the tidal wave. Now in the distance they can see:

269     LONG SHOT - TRICUSPID VALVE - P.O.V. PROTEUS

     It is beginning to close, the three membranes seemingly collapsing
     like three parachutes over the aperture. The boom of the beating Heart
     is massive, making any communication very difficult.

                         MICHAELS
                    (over the sound; up at
                    Bubble)
               Captain! They'll stop it on the next
               beat!

270     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens at the controls, eyes on the now-closed membranes, as he hears:

                         MICHAELS' VOICE
                    (from below)
               As soon as the Valve opens again, go
               through and give it everything
               you've got!

271     TRICUSPID VALVE - P.O.V. BUBBLE

     The sub approaches the now seemingly solid wall. Owens steers directly
     to where he last saw the aperture. The closed membranes loom closer
     and closer, the headbeams illuminating the delicately threaded
     strands. Suddenly, the three membranes start billowing open again.

272     THE CARDIOSCOPE SCREEN

     The electronic pattern is recording the beat.

273     THE CARDIO-VERTER AND TECHNICIAN

     He immediately presses the triggers on two electrodes held against
     Benes' chest.

274     AMPERE NEEDLE ON CARDIO-VERTER

     The needle swings over into the red zone.

275     THE CARDIOSCOPE SCREEN

     The electronic pattern indicating the heartbeat instantly flattens out
     and remains so.

276     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens is throwing on the full-speed-ahead control. The sound of the
     Heart has completely stopped.

277     EXT. EXHAUST JETS

     A surge from the twin jets as the sub is propelled forward with a
     tremendous burst of power.

278     INT. PROTEUS

     All hang on against the acceleration.

279     PROTEUS IN TRICUSPID VALVE

     As it sweeps through the now-motionless membranes which wave limply in
     the stream, with no life of their own.

280     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     A tense silence pervades. The Heart Specialist and his Technicians
     concentrate on the various instruments. The Surgical Team stands by,
     immobile.

281     TRACKING DEVICES

     The little cones are the only things that move in the Operating Room.
     As they weave back and forth:

282     STOP WATCH

     Calibrated in seconds. The hand is now crossing <5>.

283     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     In the silence, Carter looks up from the stop watch in hand to check
     with the big radar screen. Moving across the OVERLAY MAP OF THE HEART
     is a blip, indicating the sub's passage.

284     

285     EXT. PROTEUS - IN RIGHT VENTRICLE

     Racing through a subterranean channel partially illuminated by the
     headbeams: a forest of tendrils, connecting huge roots which are the
     chordae tendineae extending into the walls. The color of the stream is
     predominately blue, and the overall effect is that of a weird
     wonderland. As the sub surges ahead at top speed:

286     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     Everyone stands rooted.

287     INT. CONTROL TOWER - HEART MAP OVERLAY ON RADAR SCREEN

     The blip has crossed more than half the distance. Carter and Reid look
     on, tense. The Proteus moves further down the Ventricle. Carter
     glances at his stop watch.

                         CARTER
               Twenty-four seconds left including
               the three to revive him.

288     

289     INT. PROTEUS

     Michaels is anxiously scanning the way ahead for signs of an opening.
     There is none.

                         OWENS' VOICE
                    (from above)
               Nineteen seconds, Doctor.

                         MICHAELS
               The Semi-Lunar Valve should be on
               our left any time now.

290     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Reid and Carter are tensely watching the Heart Map Overlay, as the
     time runs out and the sub is nearing the end. Carter looks at the stop
     watch. It now shows only fifteen seconds to go, which means they must
     be out in twelve.

291     

292     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     The Heart Specialist is watching the blip nearing the end of the Radar
     Screen, with time running out. The Heart Technician standing before
     the Cardio-Verter stands immobile, looking at the needle which is at
     Zero Amperes.

293-     
294

295     EXT. PROTEUS - IN RIGHT VENTRICLE

     Racing at top speed through the immobile forest of tendrils.

296     INT. PROTEUS

     Suddenly, off to the side, Grant sees a small opening, half-moon in
     shape.

                         GRANT
               There it is!

                         MICHAELS
               Fasten yourselves in. There should
               be a tremendous surge when the Heart
               starts up again.

                         DUVAL
               If it does...

     Grant throws him a look as they quickly start to get into their
     harnesses.

297     INT. BUBBLE

     Steering for the opening, Owens glances at the Second Recorder on the
     panel.

                         OWENS
               Eight seconds left --

298     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     On edge, Reid and Carter are watching the blip on the OVERLAY MAP OF
     THE HEART on the Radarscope. If the sub makes it, it will be exactly
     in 57 seconds. There are now only six seconds left.

299     

300     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     All are focusing on the Radarscope. Five seconds left.

                         HEART SPECIALIST
               Stand by.

     The Technician at the Cardio-Verter is set to press the red button.

301     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Carter and Reid hold their breath as they see:

302     STOP WATCH

     It now reads <56>.

303     

304     OVERLAY MAP OF THE HEART

     As the blip approaches the Semi-Lunar Valves, a warning buzzer SOUNDS.

305     INT. OPERATING ROOM - RED BUTTON OF CARDIO-VERTER

     A finger presses it.

306     PULSE RATE NEEDLE ON CARDIO-VERTER

     It swings over, recording the first shock.

307     CARDIOSCOPE SCREEN

     The cathode tube registers nothing.

308     HEART SPECIALIST AT CARDIO-VERTER

     Concerned, he never takes his eyes off the Cardio-scope Screen. He
     increases the pulse rate.

309     

310     CARDIOSCOPE SCREEN

     It still records nothing. The Heart Technicians and the Surgical Team
     exchange tense looks. Again the Heart Specialist increases the pulse
     rate.

311-     
312

313     PULSE RATE NEEDLE ON CARDIO-VERTER

     As it swings over, recording a higher and higher output.

314     EXT. PROTEUS - IN RIGHT VENTRICLE

     Bathed in weird St. Elmo's fire as it keeps racing toward:

315     SEMI-LUNAR VALVE

     which suddenly dilates into a huge opening. And with it comes an
     immense surge of the stream from behind, and the first boom of the
     Heart.

316     EXT. PROTEUS

     It is swept through the Semi-Lunar Valve and into:

317     ORIFICE OF PULMONARY ARTERY - SHOOTING TOWARD SEMI-LUNAR VALVE

     Out of which the Proteus is thrust on a great tidal wave of the bluish
     stream.

318     INT. OPERATING ROOM - CARDIOSCOPE

     The electronic pattern is on full -- a leap of life. The Heart
     Specialist and the others react with relief as now the EKG and the
     other instruments begin recording Benes' return from the dead.

319     

320     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Reid and Carter are at the window overlooking the OPERATING ROOM.

                         COMMUNICATIONS AIDE
               Proteus in Quadrant 161 Level E...

     They leave the window and walk over to the one where they can view the
     MAIN OPS ROOM. They see the Grid Officer is moving the tiny sub into
     the wide channel leading to the Lungs.

                         CARTER
               They're in the Pulmonary Artery.

                         REID
               They'll make up some time, once they
               get through that and reach the
               Pleural Cavity.
                    (to Technician)
               Respiration Post...

     On the monitor next to Reid, a Technician flashes on the INTERIOR OF
     THE RESPIRATION POST. The calibrated charts marked INHALATION and
     EXHALATION indicate the return to breathing.

                         REID
               What's his rate, Jack?

                         LUNG SPECIALIST
                    (over TV)
               Back to six per minute.

     Reid reaches out, knocks a cup of coffee off the Central Control
     Section, spilling it on his trousers.

                         REID
               Damn. And I just had them cleaned.

321-     
322

323     EXT. PROTEUS - IN PULMONARY ARTERY

     It is now flowing down to its normal speed. Through the smooth
     endothelial walls, we see the outlines of what appears to be a maze of
     mammoth conduits arching above and beneath the channel through which
     the sub is proceeding. Smaller conduits divide and subdivide from the
     circular immensity, to be lost in the distance. The effect is that of
     a multi-level series of Over and Underpasses.

324     INT. PROTEUS

     All are out of their harnesses. Grant, Duval and Cora are at the bow
     windows, looking out. Michaels is at the console, plotting their
     position on a detailed Map of the Lungs.

                         GRANT
               I'd hate to get lost on that
               Freeway...

                         DUVAL
               They all lead to the same place --
               the Lungs.

325     INT. BUBBLE

     In the light of the headbeams, Owens can see the Walls becoming
     increasingly narrow and more transparent. He glances at his Repeater,
     sees the Lung Chart reflected, with the co-ordinates pinpointing their
     position.

                         OWENS
               Doctor -- the channel's getting
               awful narrow.

                         MICHAELS' VOICE
                    (from below)
               We're entering a Capillary. Remain
               in the middle.

                         OWENS
                    (fascinated)
               The Wall's transparent...

                         MICHAELS' VOICE
                    (from below)
               It's less than one ten-thousandth of
               an inch thick. And porous.

326     INT. PROTEUS - AT WINDOW

     Grant reacts as he sees a peculiar phenomenon: the big-bluish
     corpuscles which stream past the submarine are turning bright red the
     instant they impinge against the Capillary Wall. They keep moving on,
     in a constant flow, taking on their new color during:

                         GRANT
                    (amazed)
               Look at that...they're changing
               color...

                         CORA
                    (thrilled)
               Doctor -- is it possible? That we're
               seeing it happen before our eyes?

                         DUVAL
                    (quietly)
               Yes, Cora... We're the very first to
               see the  process.

     They both look out, too deeply moved to speak. Atter a moment:

                         GRANT
               Mind letting me in on what's going
               on out there?

                         DUVAL
               A simple exchange, Mr. Grant.
               Corpuscles releasing carbon dioxide
               -- the moment they touch the Wall of
               the Lung -- in return for oxygen
               coming through from the other side.

                         GRANT
               Don't tell me they're refueling...

                         DUVAL
                    (almost in a reverie)
               Oxygenation...

     Cora turns to look at him, feeling close in this shared moment. Grant,
     too, is moved by Duval's manner. Michaels glances up from the Lung
     Map.

                         DUVAL
                    (still gazing out)
               We've known it exists -- even though
               we never saw it...like the structure
               of the Atom... But to actually
               behold one of the miracles of the
               Universe -- the engineering of the
               Cycle of a Breath...

     He is too moved to continue.

                         MICHAELS
                    (into the silence)
               Nothing miraculous about it. Just an
               interchange of gases. The end
               product of five hundred million
               years of Evolution.

                         DUVAL
               You can't believe all that's
               accidental? That there isn't a
               Creative Intelligence at work --

     Before Michaels can answer, they hear a warning buzzer SOUND in the
     Bubble above.

327     INT. BUBBLE

     The buzzer is going while a red light is flashing on the panel. Owens
     looks startled at:

328     PRESSURE GAUGE ON PANEL

     The indicator is dropping rapidly toward a red horizontal line
     delineating the danger level. Owens flicks the button off and on
     rapidly, as if testing the mechanism, but the indicator keeps
     dropping. He shuts off the buzzer.

                         OWENS
                    (imperatively)
               Grant.

329     INT. PROTEUS

     All look up toward the Bubble, at the urgency of his tone. Grant moves
     from the bow toward the console during:

                         GRANT
               What is it, Skipper?

                         OWENS' VOICE
                    (trom Bubble)
               We're losing pressure in the
               Flotation Tanks. Check the Manual,
               right over there.

     Grant can see him pointing to the Manual Control Section at the rear
     of the kiosk.

                         GRANT
               Right.

     He moves quickly to:

330     MANUAL CONTROL SECTION

     Over a series of controls are numerous gauges. The indicators marked
     TANK RT and TANK LT show the left tank is rapidly losing pressure.

                         GRANT
                    (up at Bubble)
               The left tank's losing pressure.

331     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens presses a button and swivels around. With him we see:

332     P.O.V. - EXT. STERN OF PROTEUS

     A stream of large air bubbles is pouring out behind them.

333     INT. BUBBLE

     Startled, Owens presses the button which swivels him back.

                         OWENS
               Grant! Get up here, quick!

     He starts getting out of his harness.

334     INT. PROTEUS

     As Grant moves toward the Bubble, he passes Duval and Cora, who are
     now looking toward the stern.

                         CORA
                    (with apprehension)
               Air bubbles!... Doctor --

                         DUVAL
               No danger of an embolism. At our
               reduced scale, they're much too
               minute to prove fatal to Benes.

335     INT. BUBBLE

     As Grant appears, Owens is slipping out of his harness.

                         OWENS
               There's a short in the valve. Take
               over.
                    (of controls)
               Steers like an airplane.

     Grant nods as he gets into the seat. Owens starts quikly down the
     kiosk, leaving Grant at the controls.

336     INT. PROTEUS

     Cora and Duval, at the window, watch anxiously as Owens moves to the
     Manual Control Panel. Michaels remains at the console, also deeply
     concerned. Owens opens the Circuit Panel, revealing a maze of wires
     and circuit breakers. Only someone with an intimate knowledge of the
     sub could posslbly find the right one. Owens does quickly. He trips a
     switch, shuts the panel. He turns, sees their anxious looks.

                         OWENS
               Well, that takes care of the valve.
               It was probably caused by that
               electric shock.

                         MICHAELS
                    (to Owens)
               Was there any damage?

                         OWENS
               Not to the valve. But we've lost too
               much air to make it the rest of the
               way.

                         DUVAL
               What do you propose we do, Captain?

                         OWENS
               Nothing we can do. We must have full
               tanks to continue.

     He starts up toward the Bubble, leaving the three staring at each
     other in consternation.

337-     
338

339     INT. BUBBLE

     As Grant slips out of the seat and Owens resumes at controls:

                         GRANT
               Any reserve air?

                         OWENS
               Enough to breathe, but that's all.

     Grant starts down.

340     INT. PROTEUS

     He steps into the cabin in time to hear:

                         DUVAL
                    (ironically)
               Just a few cells away from a vast
               air chamber -- one of the countless
               Alvioli of the Lung -- and we can't
               get enough to fill a microscopic
               tank.

                         GRANT
               Maybe we can...
                    (as they look at him in
                    bewilderment)
               Skipper, is there a snorkel on this
               sub?

                         OWENS' VOICE
                    (from Bubble)
               Yes, there is.

                         GRANT
                    (to Michaels and Duval)
               Could I run a tube through that
               Wall, without harming Benes?

                         MICHAELS
               At this size, I would certainly
               think so.

                         GRANT
               If those Corpuscles can take on air,
               no reason why we can't.
                    (to Duval)
               All we have to do is hook up the
               snorkel to that air chamber you were
               talk1ng about, and when Benes
               inhales, there should be plenty of
               pressure to force the oxygen into
               the tank.
                    (up at Owens)
               How's that sound to you, Skipper?

341     INT. BUBBLE

     As Owens considers the possibility:

                         OWENS
               It's a dangerous procedure. If I
               miss the timing, we could explode
               the tanks... But I'm willing to try
               it.

342     INT. PROTEUS

                         MICHAELS
               Yes, by all means. We must try it.

                         OWENS' VOICE
                    (from Bubble)
               It'll be safer if everybody leaves
               the sub.

     Grant moves to the aft compartment, opens the door, goes into:

343     INT. LAB AND STORAGE SECTION

     As he moves to compartment containing the Underwater Gear, he is
     jolted by something he sees o.s.

344     LASER OVER WORKING COUNTER

     It is swinging loose on one hook, its plastic cover off.

345     INT. LAB AND STORAGE SECTION

     Grant takes a step toward it, stops.

                         GRANT
               Cora!

     After a moment, she appears. She follows his look toward the laser,
     reacts aghast.

                         GRANT
               Looks like you didn't batten it down
               too well.

                         CORA
               But I did. I'm positive!

     Duval and Michaels appear in the doorway in time to hear:

                         GRANT
               Then how come it worked loose?

                         CORA
               I have no idea.

                         DUVAL
               Cora, is something wrong with the
               laser?

                         CORA
                    (distraught)
               I don't know yet, Doctor. And I
               won't know until I test it.

                         GRANT
               That'll have to wait until after
               we're refueled.

     As he takes out the Underwater Gear and passes it to the three:

                         CORA
                    (righting laser)
               I can't imagine how it possibly
               could have come loose. I distinctly
               recall fastening it with all four
               bolts --

                         MICHAELS
               It must have been jarred loose
               during the whirlpool.

     Grant and Michaels exchange looks, as if neither are satisfied with
     the explanation.

                         GRANT
                    (of gear)
               Well, let's get into these as
               quickly as possible.

     He leads the way out. Michaels and Duval follow. Left alone, Cora
     starts to unzip her jumper, revealing she is wearing her swim suit
     beneath. Her eyes remain on the laser, now her prime source of
     anxiety...

345A     INT. MAIN OPS ROOM

     Starting on the grid map, we see the sub in the channel of the
     Pulmonary Artery. CAMERA then TILTS DOWN to the Radarscope, where the
     blip is blinking on and off in one place, without moving.

346     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     On the monitor at the Map Table, we see the INTERIOR OF THE TRACKING
     POST, where the same blip is in the identical stationary position on
     the Radarscreen. PULL BACK to include Reid staring at the blip on the
     monitor. Carter is pacing on the other side of the table.

                         REID
               They've stopped -- on the outer
               limits of the Right Lung...

     Carter looks at the Minute Recorder. It reads <42>.

                         CARTER
               Another delay... With only forty-two
               minutes left.

                         REID
               It'll be close -- but there's still
               a margin of safety.

                         CARTER
               Let's find what the devil's holding
               them up!
                    (to Wireless Technician)
               Contact the Proteus!

     As the message is heard being tapped out:

                         REID
                    (glancing at Monitors;
                    none are on)
               It must be some kind of mechanical
               difficulty.

     The tapping stops. As they wait for an answer, Carter pours a stream
     of sugar into his coffee.

                         REID
               I told you to cut down on the sugar.

                         CARTER
               I can't help it. I'm just weak, I
               guess.

347-     
349

350     INT. PROTEUS - AT DOOR OF ESCAPE HATCH

     All have stepped out of their jumpers and are now revealed in their
     swim suits except Owens, who remains in the Bubble. The suits are
     form-fitting, antiseptic-looking, with a Breather Pack strapped to the
     back. Duval is tightening Cora's pack. Grant is checking Michaels'
     pack. The latter looks in rear at the small hatch, visible through the
     open door. The wireless starts tapping again.

                         CORA
                    (of tapping wireless)
               Shouldn't you answer that?

                         GRANT
                    (putting on swim mask)
               Not now. We need air, not greetings!

     He motions Michaels to precede him into the hatch. Face reflecting his
     irrational fear, Michaels puts his swim mask over his fear. But he
     freezes at the door, unable to step into the small hatch. Grant and
     Duval exchange looks.

                         GRANT
               Let's go, Doctor.

     Michaels forces himself into the Escape Hatch. Grant follows, closing
     the door.

351     INT. ESCAPE HATCH

     There is only space for the two. Michaels cowers against the wall,
     palms pressed against the metal, fighting against another seizure of
     his phobia. Grant opens a valve. Liquid starts pouring into the hatch
     from several ports. When it is up to their chins, Grant bends down to
     unlock the ventral hatch.

352     EXT. PROTEUS

     Grant drops out of the hatch. Michaels follows. Grant then closes the
     hatch. With Grant in the lead, they swim toward:

353     EXT. TOP OF PROTEUS

     Grant reaches the snorkel, looks toward Bubble.

354     INT. BUBBLE

     Where Owens has now swiveled so that he faces the stern. Owens sees
     Grant signal to proceed. Owens presses button on SNORKEL RELEASE.

355     EXT. PROTEUS

     The snorkel starts rising. When the tube is a few feet above the sub,
     Grant takes the bobbing end, holds it under one arm, and starts
     swimming with his free arm toward the Capillary Wall on the left.

356     EXT. SIDE OF PROTEUS

     As Grant swims by with the end of the unreeling tube, Michaels joins
     him. Then Duval and Cora, who are now coming out of the ventral hatch.
     All swim to the nearby Capillary Wall. (NOTE: During the following,
     their action is complicated by the big Corpuscles flowing by in a
     steady stream, taking on oxygen and bumping into them.) They reach:

357     EXT. ALVEOLAR CREVICE

     It shimmers with the liquid that seems to cover it like a door of
     reflecting glass. The opening is just large enough for all to look
     within. They see:

358     INT. ALVEOLUS

     A vast conical volcano, the upper part lost to view. Numerous
     outcroppings of immense crags are visible on all sides.

                         GRANT
               It's full of rocks!

     (NOTE: During all Swimming Sequences, we will hear the Speaker's Voice
      via the AUDIO PICKUP within the swimming mask of the one who
     responds vocally.)

                         MICHAELS
               In a way -- yes. Those are
               impurities imbedded in the Lung
               after a lifetime of 'Civilization.'
               Carbon from smoke and smog -- specks
               of dust --

                         GRANT
               Well, we better get on with it.

     He starts shoving the front of the snorkel through the vertical liquid
     entrance. To his startled surprise, it immediately comes flying out
     with great force. Michaels and Duval grab it in time to prevent the
     snorkel from snaking off down the stream.

                         MICHAELS
               Careful! There is a tremendous air
               pressure in there -- in relation to
               our size!

     Grant grabs hold or the front part again.

                         GRANT
               I'll try to hold it from the other
               side of the wall, while you push
               from out here. Maybe that'll do it.

                         CORA
               You can't --it's too dangerous --

                         MICHAELS
               Yes -- with all that pressure, and
               suction within --

                         GRANT
               There's no other way. Tie my safety
               line to the sub.

                         DUVAL
               Here, let me have it.

     Grant takes out his safety line, hooks it onto his suit. Duval starts
     swimming with the other end back to the Proteus.

359     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens is eyeing the pressure gauges anxiously. He reacts as he sees:

360     EXT. PROTEUS - P.O.V. BUBBLE

     With Owens we see Duval is nearing the sub, the safety line strung out
     behind him.

361     EXT. PROTEUS - AT VENTRAL HATCH

     Duval hooks Grant's safety line onto a ring for the purpose, signals:

362     EXT. ALVEOLUS CREVICE

     Grant acknowledges signal. The Alveolar Wall can be seen dilating
     slightly.

                         GRANT
               All right now -- push the snorkel
               through as soon as I get inside.

                         MICHAELS
                    (eyes on Wall)
               Walt for the lull -- between the
               time he inhales and exhales.

     As the dilating stops:

                         MICHAELS
               !

     Grant pushes quickly through the shimmering entrance.

363     INT. ALVEOLUS

     He has literally transposed himself into another element: air. There
     is no turbulence, no sound. Instantly he props his feet against both
     sides of the entrance. The snorkel is shoved through. As he grabs it
     and holds, a breath is heard starting. Only Grant can hear the ensuing
     sound.

364     CAPILLARY SIDE OF ALVEOLUS

     Duval now joins Michaels and Cora. They hold against the increasing
     pressure from within. Grant can be seen straining on the other side
     against the enormous wind pressure.

365     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens' finger is on the button of the MASTER PRESSURE GAUGE, waiting.
     Tha indicator is quickly swinging toward FULL.

366     INT. ALVEOLUS

     The wind is rising to gale force. Grant is holding on with all his
     strength to the end of the snorkel. The others can be seen pushing
     from their side, to keep the tube from flying out.

367     MASTER PRESSURE GAUGE

     As the indicator hits the FULL position:

368     AIR TANK CONTROL BUTTON

     Owens' finger presses down while:

                         OWENS' VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               Full!

369     INT. ALVEOLUS

     In response, Grant lets go of the snorkel, which is instantly whipped
     out. Buffeted by the howling wind, he now tries to get out. But the
     hurricane causes Grant to lose his balance. He falls, slammed against
     the outcroppings by the force of the wind. Finally the lull comes.
     Instantly, Grant starts climbing back, hand over hand, using the rope
     as one would in scaling a mountain. The crevice is still far up ahead
     when suddenly a new breath starts in the upward direction. Grant is
     caught in the tremendous suction of the exhalation and is pulled
     toward the interior of the Lung.

370     SAFETY CLASP ON SUB RING

     The Safety Clasp breaks off at the end of the nylon.

371     EXT. ALVEOLUS CREVICE

     Michaels, Duval and Cora react as the line snakes past them through
     the crevice.

                         CORA
                    (horrified)
               He's gone!

372     INT. ALVEOLUS

     The suction sends Grant flying upward, past the crevice, with the
     safety line trailing after him. The wind whips him toward a fantastic
     height. Finally he hits:

373     COLUMNAR CILIA

     Long stalks, with a waving motion that makes it resemble a vast field
     of wheat. Grant is seen flying through it, until he is lost from view.
     Then as the wind subsides:

374     EXT. ALVEOLUS CREVICE

     The three are waiting, tense.

                         DUVAL
                    (to Michaels)
               What can we do?

                         MICHAELS
               Nothing -- against all that force.

                         CORA
               But we just can't leave him in
               there! What'll happen to him?

                         MICHAELS
               We'll know -- in the next breath...

     They react as they see the Alveolar Wall starting to dilate again,
     signaling the advent of another breath.

375     INT. ALVEOLUS - SHOOTING UP

     The wind starts howling. And then Grant is seen at a vast height,
     plummeting down. Part of the way he hits a spongy area, bounces, is
     caught up again by the blasting wind, hits another spongy section,
     with a big outcropping of "rock."

376     EXT. OUTCROPPING

     Fighting the gale, he manages to snake his safety line around the big
     rock. As he hangs on, he sees:

377     P.O.V. - PRINCIPALS AND SUB - THROUGH CREVICE

     Not too far above, with rocks between.

378     GRANT

     He waits it out until the howling tornado subsides. Then in the lull,
     he releases himself quickly and clambers toward the opening. He
     thrusts himself through the crevice, just as another breath begins.

379     EXT. ALVEOLUS CREVICE

     The others grab him, pull him through all the way before he can be
     sucked back.

380     EXT. CAPILLARY WALL - P.O.V. BUBBLE

     Owens is relieved to see the four start swimming back to the sub.

381     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Carter is pacing in the heavy silence. Reid is watching the monitors.
     Carter glances at the Minute Recorder. It flashes to <37>. Suddenly
     the tapping starts. Tense, they wait for the message. It is brief. As
     the Wireless Operator tears it off the pad, Carter takes it.

                         CARTER
                    (reading)
               'Proteus reports putting in to
               refuel air. Proceeding through the
               Pleural Cavity.'
                    (suddenly realizing)
               Refuel air?

     As Reid starts to remove the OVERLAY MAP OF THE HEART from the
     Radarscope:

                         REID
               Why not? They had a choice of over a
               billion Alveoli...

382     LONG SHOT - PROTEUS IN PLEURAL CAVITY

     The lone voyager is proceeding in a calm sea. Its headbeams reflect a
     yellowish cast, which becomes increasingly warm and sunny during the
     scene.

383     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens glances at the Repeater. The co-ordinates show the sub is
     traveling toward the apex of the Pleura, to the north, which is
     bounded by an undefined area simply marked "Lymphatic." A sense of
     absolute serenity seems to pervade. Abruptly:

384     SMASHED LASER TRANSISTOR

     as it is placed on the edge of an array of disassembled parts.

385     INT. LAB SECTION - WORKBENCH

     Cora is putting the tiny transistor down. Then, with a tweezers, she
     takes out the last part: a hair-like strand of wire. To Duval, who is
     beside her:

                         CORA
               And a broken trigger-wire...

386     INT. LAB AND STORAGE SECTION

     Grant and Michaels are standing at the doorway, reacting to:

                         DUVAL
                    (fingering the parts)
               A smashed transistor. No way to fire
               the lamp... Well, that's the end of
               the laser.

     Grant and Michaels exchange looks.

                         GRANT
                    (to Cora)
               You must carry spare parts --

                         CORA
               Not anything built into the chassis.
                    (with guilt)
               If it hadn't come loose --

                         MICHAELS
               That's beside the point now.
                    (to Duval)
               I don't see the sense of going on.

                         CORA
               We must!

                         MICHAELS
               With no laser --

                         GRANT
                    (to Duval)
               Isn't there another surgical
               procedure you can try?

                         DUVAL
               No, there's no other way.

     Before Michaels can answer, Grant squeezes into the compartment, picks
     up the broken transistor.

                         GRANT
                    (to Cora)
               If you had a transistor about this
               size and power output, and a thin
               enough wire --
                    (of laser)
               -- could you piece it together?

                         CORA
               No, it requires such absolute
               precision --

                         GRANT
               A surgeon might...

                         CORA
               Oh yes, I'm sure Dr. Duval could. If
               we had the parts.

                         GRANT
               I've got a source. All I have to do
               is tap it.

     At their blank looks, he turns and moves into:

387     INT. PROTEUS

     As he goes to the wireless and begins to unscrew the panel, Michaels
     suddenly realizes:

                         MICHAELS
               Grant -- wait a minute -- you're not
               going to dismantle the wireless?

                         GRANT
               Just one little transistor and a
               circuit wire is all it takes.

                         MICHAELS
               But that'll knock out our
               communications! We'll be cutting
               ourselves off from the outside.

                         GRANT
               They'll still be able to track us by
               radar, because of the radioactive
               fuel.

     He moves to the panel, revealing a maze of electronic parts.

                         GRANT
               Well, sir? Which is it? The
               wireless, or Benes' life?

                         MICHAELS
                    (finally)
               Send the following message...

387A     

388     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     A LUNG OVERLAY MAP is now on the Radarscope. Reid and Carter see the
     Grid Officer is moving the replica of the Proteus into the next
     quadrant of the Pleural Cavity.

     An incoming message is heard. The Wireless Operator takes down the
     message. As the tapping stops:

                         CARTER
                    (reading)
               'Cannibalizing wireless to repair
               laser. This is last message.'

     Reid and Carter exchange grim looks.

                         CARTER
               Incommunicado... Now they're really
               on their own.

     Reid moves to the window overlooking the OPERATING ROOM. As he looks
     down on Benes and the little Tracking Devices weaving back and forth
     across his chest:

                         REID
                    (quietly)
               We can still track them -- but
               that's all we can do.

     Carter joins him. As they both look down:

                         CARTER
               Something told me I got into the
               wrong end of the bus1ness.
                    (answering look)
                Space...

389     

390     TINY TRANSISTOR AND STRAND OF WIRE

     In the palm of Grant's hand. Cora's fingers delicately pick up both.

                         CORAlS VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               The transistor will do. But the
               wire's much too thick.

391     INT. LAB AND STORAGE SECTION

     Duval is picking up the original wire with the tweezers and placing it
     on a contrasting surface during:

                         GRANT
               Nothing closer.

     As Cora turns to the workbench:

                         DUVAL
               I may be able to scrape it thin
               enough. Cora, get me a number eleven
               scalpel.

     She puts the transistor and wire down on the workbench and moves to
     open a medical kit. Duval takes the wire and places it between two
     small clamps on the workbench. Cora extracts a scalpel, gives it to
     him. Duval swings a magnifying glass over the strand as Cora trains a
     light on the wire. Duval bends over. Peering through the magnifying
     glass, he slowly begins to scrape the strand with the scalpel.

392     GRANT AND MICHAELS

     They exchange looks. Then Grant turns away.

393     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant leads the way to the bow. As they look out:

                         GRANT
               Looks like the sea, at dawn.

                         MICHAELS
               We're safe -- long as it remains
               that color...
                    (answering look)
               We're in the Pleural Sac.
                    (indicating arched dome
                    far above)
               It keeps the Lungs from rubbing
               against the Wall of the Chest up
               there. When those membranes become
               inflamed, we wind up with Pleurisy
               -- and a wracking cough.

                         GRANT
               Cough? If he can kick up a storm by
               just  --

                         MICHAELS
               His Pleura's in fine condition. It
               should be clear sailing through this
               area.

                         GRANT
               Let's hope... So far, somebody's
               tried to sabotage this mission
               twice.

     He glances back in the direction of Duval. Both drop their voices so
     that Duval and Cora can't hear:

                         MICHAELS
                    (startled)
               Sabotage? I don't understand...

                         GRANT
               I saw the laser just before we
               started. It was fastened down
               securely. You don't suppose what
               happened was an 'accident?' Any more
               than my safety line snapping after
               it was tied off to the sub?

                         MICHAELS
               You have no right to blame Duval --

                         GRANT
               That line was tampered with...

                         MICHAELS
                    (agitated)
               I -- I don't know what to say. I
               know he's under a cloud, but there's
               not a more dedicated man in the
               entire medical profession.

                         GRANT
               You still never know what's going on
               in anyone's mind...

                         MICHAELS
                    (with finality)
               I can't believe it. Whatever
               happened was an accident.

                         GRANT
               Two in a row?

                         MICHAELS
               It's possible --

     Grant looks at the Minute Recorder. It now reads <32>.

                         GRANT
               Thirty-two minutes left...
                    (back to Michaels)
               But chances are we won't have to
               wait that long for try-number three.

                         OWENS' VOICE
                    (from above)
               Look at those Walls up ahead!

     Grant and Michaels look out through the bow. Grant reacts amazed as he
     sees:

394     ENTRANCE OF LYMPHATIC DUCT - P.O.V. BOW

     A huge tube-like structure looms up. The Walls are transparent,
     composed of a single layer of squamous cells with round nuclei. Since
     the color of the stream is now predominately yellow, the globs create
     the impression of innumerable:

                         GRANT'S VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               ?!

395     INT. BOW

     As Michaels moves to the console:

                         MICHAELS
                    (with smile)
               We're entering the Lymphatic System.
               Those are nuclei of cells, lining a
               Duct.

                         GRANT
                    (puzzled)
               I always had an idea there was only
               one System. The Circulatory.

                         MICHAELS
               The Lymphatic System drains off
               excess fluid from the Tissues.
               Without it, we'd all swell up like
               balloons. He reaches the console,
               begins to take out a new chart.

396     INT. BUBBLE

     The new chart suddenly becomes visible on the Repeater as it is spread
     out below. Owens reacts to the labyrinth.

                         OWENS
               Looks like quite a Navigation
               problem...

     The co-ordinates are seen being moved to indicate the sub is passing
     through a Lymphatic Duct on its way to the first Node, which is
     followed by a series of others, strung out like sausage links.

                         MICHAELS' VOICE
                    (from below)
               Only until we get through the Nodes
               -- the Lymphatic Glands. Follow your
               present compass heading.

397     EXT. PROTEUS - LYMPHATIC DUCT

     As it courses easily through the sunny stream, to suddenly emerge
     into:

398     EXT. LYMPHATIC NODE

     A startlingly different world. The headbeams reveal what appears to be
     an underwater marshland: a tangle of reticular fibers which wave with
     the gentle cross currents seeping through the mesh. Weird bacterial
     forms drift by, moving in groups like raiding parties. The yellowish
     light of the Lymphatic Stream still filters through.

399     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens is forced to slow down as he carefully begins to thread his way
     through the tangle, trying not to brush against the tendrils. But for
     all of Owens' care, the nose of the sub breaks some fibers as it
     nudges through the increasingly narrow spaces of the brambly mesh.

400     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant reacts as he sees the broken fibers drift against the bow
     windows, and then become momentarily entangled around them. When the
     tendrils clear the windows, he looks back to the stern.

401     FLOATING TENDRILS - P.O.V. GRANT

     They are floating aft. Some adhere to the propulsion section, trailing
     out so that Grant can see them.

402     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant reacts, looks back and up toward Bubble.

                         GRANT
               Skipper, you're picking up seaweed
               -- or whatever it is.

                         MICHAELS
                    (reassuringly; at chart)
               Reticular fibers. We ought to be
               clear of them soon.

403     EXT. LYMPHATIC NODE - P.O.V. BUBBLE

     With Owens, we see the way ahead is more tangly. As he keeps slowing
     down to get through safely:

                         OWENS
                    (anxiously)
               I hope so, Doctor. If that stuff
               clogs the vents, the engine'll
               overheat --

     He breaks off as a big clump of fibers is torn loose, for all his
     skillful steering.

404     EXT. UNDERSIDE OF SUB

     The mass of tendrils drifts down the length of the underside. Part of
     the clump adheres to the ventral hatch, another section twines around
     the exhaust: In so doing, it snags on the brambles beneath.

405     INT. LAB AND STORAGE SECTION

     Scalpel poised over the wire, Duval reacts as the Proteus momentarily
     jars while it pulls loose. He exchanges looks with Cora, who is
     holding the lamp.

406     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant glances back toward the open door of the aft compartment,
     realizing the danger of trying to repair the laser now. He looks at
     Michaels, who is bent over the chart.

                         GRANT
               Doctor --

     He is interrupted by a loud WHAM against the bow windows. Startled,
     both look off, see:

407     EXT. LYMPHATIC NODE - BEGINNING OF BATTLE BETWEEN BACTERIA AND
     ANTIBODIES - P.O.V. PRINCIPALS

     Flashing reflected light from the headbeams, elongated crystalline
     structures with rod-like projections which make linkage possible, are
     whipping against the bow windows where they have trapped a mass of
     ferocious-looking large Bacteria. The smaller crystalline Anti-bodies
     are rapidly coupling with others that speed in to join the fray. The
     Bacteria fight back with their flagella, in a death struggle.

408     VIEW OF BATTLE FROM INT. BUBBLE

     Owens ducks involuntarily as the linking Antibodies and the Bacteria
     slam against the Bubble in such numbers and sizes as to make the way
     ahead virtually invisible. As a result, the sub tears through a clump
     of fibers like a scythe.

409     INT. PROTEUS

     Duval appears in the doorway.

                         DUVAL
               What's causing all that -- ?

     He breaks off as he sees the Antibodies and Bacteria whipping against
     the windows. Cora appears behind him, gasps at the sight of the
     monsters locked in battle.

                         GRANT
               Looks like somebody declared war.

                         MICHAELS
               Just what it is. Antibodies,
               destroying Bacteria -- or any other
               foreign invader that threatens the
               System.

410     BIG CLOSEUP - ONE ANTIBODY AND BACTERIUM

     As both slam and hold against the bow windows in a life-and-death
     struggle. An amazing phenomenon is taking form: Antibodies are hooking
     up at the rods to completely encase the Bacterium -- and the geometric
     forms fit the antagonist .

                         CORA'S VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               Look -- it's taking its exact shape!

                         GRANT'S VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               Like hand-in-glove.

                         MICHAELS' VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               Much closer. Like two atoms.

     Now the crystalline geometric links start pressing together with
     inexorable force. The Bacterium fights back with its flagella. Then
     suddenly it goes limp. As the destroyed Bacterium drifts off, another
     mass of virulent monsters smashes into the windows and are instantly
     embattled with a swarm of Antibodies that come linking up. Now the
     SOUND of the battle can be heard along the entire length of the sub.
     Meanwhile, the sub is jarred hard, as it breaks through another clump
     of entangling fibers. The sound and sight of the mortal battle
     increases in intensity, as does the forced passage during:

                         DUVAL
                    (with glance at Minute
                    Recorder)
               We'll never get there in time, at
               this rate.

                         GRANT
                    (to M1chaels)
               Isn't there another route? So we can
               by-pass all this?

                         DUVAL
               Yes...
                    (to Michaels)
               We can transfer over to the Inner
               Ear, and go by way of the
               Endolymphatic Duct.

                         GRANT
                    (to M1chaels)
               Then why not take it?

                         MICHAELS
               It's infinitely more hazardous than
               going this way. Once we enter the
               Inner Ear,  sound in the
               Operating Room will be disastrous.
               At our reduced size, the vibrations
               inside the Ear would have a
               shattering effect.

     Another jar of the sub, and more smashing against the hull and bow
     windows, as the battle of the Antibodies and Bacteria reaches a
     climax.

                         GRANT
                    (over sound)
               They're tracking us Topside. Once
               they see where we're going, I'm sure
               they'll take every precaution.

                         MICHAELS
               Let's hope they realize the danger.
                    (up at Bubble)
               Captain, I'll give you a new compass
               heading.

411     BENES' SHAVED HEAD

     With the radial lines in the f.g. Beyond, the Tracking Devices are now
     weaving back and forth in the area of the Neck.

411A     INT. MAIN OPS ROOM

     CAMERA on the TRACKING POST, PICKING UP the Four Technicians before
     their Radarscreens. CAMERA then TILTS UP to the big grid map. We see
     the Grid Officer above, positioning the replica of the Proteus in the
     Inner Ear.

412     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Reid and Carter are looking down at the OPERATING ROOM. They turn as
     the Communications Aide announces:

                         COMMUNICATIONS AIDE
               Proteus turning in Quadrant 73.

     Reid and Carter move to window overlooking the MAIN OPS ROOM. They
     exchange relieved looks as the Grid Officer moves the sub to the
     lateral quadrant, in the Neck.

                         REID
                    (with relief)
               At last they're heading for the
               Inner Ear...

     Carter glances at the Minute Recorder. It flashes <27>.

                         CARTER
                    (biting into unlit
                    cigar)
               About time they realized they'd
               never make it the other way.

     Reid moves to the Control Section, presses button.

413     

414     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     The Surgical Team and the Technicians exchange looks as they hear:

                         REID'S VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               The Proteus is about to enter the
               Inner Ear... You are not to walk,
               talk, or make a sound of  kind.
                    (strongly)
                must be
               maintained until they are out of the
               danger area...

     As all remain frozen in their positions:

414A     TRACKING DEVICE PAN

     with it to:

414B     EXTREME CLOSE SHOT - BENES' EAR

     CAMERA MOVES IN on the Ear, until it fills the screen.

415     

415A     PANEL OF PROTEUS

     The red warning lights are flashing, the needle of the TEMPERATURE
     GAUGE is in the danger zone. The SPEEDOMETER is nearing zero.

415B     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens is working the controls, apparently without avail. He glances
     anxiously ahead, sees:

415C     EXT. COCHLEAR DUCT - ENDOLYMPHATIC STREAM - P.O.V. BUBBLE

     A huge clear area. In the distance, a few drifting Antibodies. There
     is nothing evident that should be giving the Proteus any difficulty.

415D     INT. BUBBLE

     As Owens looks back with grave concern to the panel, the SPEEDOMETER
     needle drops to zero.

415E     EXT. COCHLEAR DUCT - LONG SHOT

     The Proteus is sinking to the bottom.

415F     INT. PROTEUS

     Duval and Cora are back in the lab Section, working on the laser.
     Grant is beside Michaels at the chart. Both look up as the Proteus
     touches bottom with a slight jar.

                         GRANT
                    (up at Bubble)
               What's wrong, Skipper?

                         OWENS' VOICE
                    (from Bubble)
               What I was afraid would happen. The
               stuff we passed through -- that
               looked like seaweed --

                         MICHAELS
               Reticular fibers --

                         OWENS' VOICE
                    (from Bubble)
               It clogged the intake vents. We're
               not getting any propulsion.

                         GRANT
               Well, there's only one thing to do.

     As he moves to put on his Breather Pack, Cora appears in the doorway
     of the Lab Section. She looks anxiously out of the bow windows. In the
     distance, several Anti-bodies can be seen.

                         CORA
               You're going out there? With those
               Antibodies --

                         MICHAELS
                    (to Grant)
               No danger of attack, as long as you
               don't trigger them off by any injury
               to the System.

     Grant nods, steps into the Escape Hatch, closing the door behind him.
     The light flashes red. Cora remains at the bow windows, looking toward
     the drifting Anti-bodies, with apprehension.

415G     

416     EXT. VENTRAL HATCH

     Grant is dropping out of the opening, causing the attached seaweed-
     like fibers to come loose and drift off.

417     WITH GRANT

     He swims toward the bow, reaches the propulsion intake vents. As the
     clogged vents come into view:

                         OWENS' VOICE
                    (over audio)
               How's it look?

                         GRANT
               I could use a lawnmower...

418-     
455

455A     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens glances at the Minute Recorder.

                         OWENS
               How long do you think it'll take?

                         GRANT'S VOICE
                    (over audio)
               Quite a while.

455B     INT. PROTEUS

     Cora turns from the bow windows. The Antibodies are still in view.

                         CORA
               Wouldn't it be quicker if we all
               helped?

                         MICHAELS
                    (with glance at Minute
                    Recorder)
               Yes, there's no time to spare. And
               those fibers can be quite tenacious.

     He moves to the Escape Hatch with Cora, both strapping on their
     Breather Packs. She glances at Duval, still in the Lab Section.

                         DUVAL
               I'd better use the time to finish
               repairing the laser.

     Michaels and Cora step into the Escape Hatch, adjust their swimming
     masks.

456     EXT. PROTEUS - BOW

     Grant is pulling the seaweed-like fibers out of the intake vents. He
     works fast at what seems an endless task.

457     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens is watching the TEMPERATURE GAUGE. The needle is still in the
     danger zone.

458     EXT. PROTEUS - BOW

     Michaels and Cora swim up to Grant, join him in yanking out the long
     clinging tendrils. All work quickly as possible.

459     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     Absolute silence. The immobile Surgical Team and Technicians create a
     tableau-like effect. The forced silence and the inactivity causes
     several to sweat with tension. All are focusing on the Tracking
     Devices, now weaving back and forth at Benes' Head.

460     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Reid and Carter are at the window overlooking the OPERATING ROOM. The
     Communications Aide turns to them. They react with misgiving as they
     hear:

                         COMMUNICATIONS AIDE
               Report no movement of the Proteus
               since entering Quadrant 74, Level D.

     Reid and Carter exchange grim looks, move to look down on the MAIN OPS
     ROOM. They see the little Proteus is in the quadrant of the Cochlear
     Duct. Carter glances at the Minute Recrder. It now reads <24>.

                         CARTER
               Twenty-four minutes left. Maximum.
               This is just what we need -- another
               delay...

     He sees an ant crawling along the table, in the direction of a few
     spilled grains of sugar. Automatically, he starts to bring his thumb
     down to crush it. But he stops just in time. Reid looks at Carter
     curiously as the latter carefully picks up the ant and puts it on the
     railing so it can crawl out of harm's way.

                         REID
                    (with smile)
               You'll wind up a Hindu. Respecting
               all forms of life -- however
               small...

461     

462     EXT. PROTEUS - BOW

     Loose tendrils are flowing about the hull like drifting seaweed. But
     the vents seem to hold an endless amount. Grant, Cora and Michaels,
     working at an exhausting pace, keep pulling out more and more clumps
     of long fibers.

463     INT. BUBBLE

     Eyes on the TEMPERATURE GAUGE, Owens reacts with relief as he sees the
     needle beginning to swing away from the danger zone.

464     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     Nothing moves except the little Tracking Devices on their silent
     bearings. But the ordeal of absolute silence and no movement is
     beginning to tell on all. Particularly:

465     SURGICAL CHIEF

     An older man, corpulent, he is sweating profusely under the strain.
     The headband of his Surgical Cap is wet. Automatically, he brings his
     rubber-gloved hand up to wipe the perspiration away, stops, as he
     glances at the patient o.s.

466     EXT. PROTEUS

     Many loose tendrils now about the hull attest to the progress of
     cleaning the vents. The three keep working.

467     INT. BUBBLE

     The needle of the TEMPERATURE GAUGE is now almost out of the danger
     zone.

467A     INT. MAIN OPS ROOM - SUB GRID MAP

     The sub is not moving. The Minute Recorder reads <21>.

467B     INT. MAIN OPS ROOM - SHOOTING TOWARD CONTROL TOWER

     Reid and Carter are at the window, looking down into the room.

468     

469     EXT. PROTEUS

     The last of the fiber clumps is now being removed.

470     SURGICAL CHIEF

     Rivulets of sweat are streaming down toward the wrinkled corners of
     his eyes, causing him to blink.

471     FEMALE SURGICAL AIDE

     Seeing his extreme discomfort, she follows the usual procedure of
     reaching for a towel on the instrument table.

472     TOWEL

     A surgical scissors is partially tucked within the folds.

473     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     The scissors is not visible from the Aide's angle. As she pulls the
     towel gently off the table, careful not to make a sound:

474     SCISSORS

     Dislodged from the table. CAMERA WHIPS with it toward the floor. On
     the shattering impact:

475     FLASH CUT - BENES' EAR

     It fills the screen, the sound reverberating o.s. Instantly:

476     EXT. COCHLEAR DUCT

     The vibrations send the Proteus flying through the clear sea, as if
     struck by a cataclysmic undersea force. (NOTE: Until the end of this
     sequence, the vibrations keep on as if they have set off
     reverberations in endless echo chambers.)

477     GRANT

     Flung in one direction.

478     MICHAELS

     Hurled off in another direction.

479     CORA

     Whipped away from all the others.

480     OWENS IN BUBBLE

     Clutching the panel for support.

481     DUVAL IN LAB SECTION

     Clutching the laser.

482     EXT. ORGAN OF CORTI - WITH CORA

     As she is tossed toward the Cells of Hensen: a series of tall columnar
     structures, non-rigid, with cuticular plates forming a mosaic pattern.

483     CORA

     She is horrified as she sees where she is heading for:

484     P.O.V. - CHASM

     One wall consists of the TECTORIAL MEMBRANE, opaque, with built-in
     huge fibers. The other wall: geometric and translucent. Spaced at
     intervals are what appear to be electrical conduits with four exposed
     strands spanning the two walls. All the conduits are vibrating.

485     WITH CORA - DOWN THE CHASM

     She is thrust over the curved edge, starts falling head down. She
     narrowly misses the first connective conduit. Then her Breather Pack
     snags on one of the strands of the next conduit, which flings her
     partially to one side so that her legs are caught between the other
     strands. As she hangs head down, the weight of her body causing the
     strands -- and herself -- to be whipped back and forth, she is further
     terrifled to see:

486     LONG SHOT - CHASM - CORA'S P.O.V.

     All the quadruple strands are vibratlng in the seemingly bottomless
     abyss.

487     BACK TO CORA

     As she tries to extricate herself, which causes her to be "vibrated"
     with even greater intensity:

                         CORA
                    (screaming)
               Help!

488     EXT. COCHLEAR DUCT

     In the distance, the Proteus is being brought under control. Michaels
     and Grant are in view, swimming against the force set off by the
     diminishing vibrations in this part of the Ear.

489     GRANT

     He hears:

                         CORA'S VOICE
                    (barely audible: over
                    audio)
               Please! Help!

     Grant looks about. There is no sign of her.

490     CORA

     Struggling head down, in terror, she hears:

                         GRANT'S VOICE
                    (over audio; in
                    distance)
               Cora! Where are you?

                         CORA
               I don't know! I think I'm caught on
               some auditory fibers!

491     EXT. COCHLEAR DUCT

     Michaels swims up to Grant.

                         GRANT
               Where would that be?

     As Michaels points, Grant hears:

                         MICHAELS' VOICE
                    (over audio)
               Right down there.

     They both swim off in the indicated direction, reach:

492     EXT. EDGE OF CHASM

     Both look down. At first they don't see her. Then Grant spots Cora. He
     points for Michaels' benefit. They see:

493     CORA IN CHASM - THEIR P.O.V.

     Far below, still trying to struggle loose.

494     CORA IN CHASM

     As she hears:

                         GRANT'S VOICE
                    (on audio)
               Okay! I can see you!

     She stops struggling. But unseen by her, the vibrating strands in
     which she is entangled have called forth, in apparent response:

495     FEW ANTIBODIES - IN CHASM

     Appearing from the far side, and below Cora. They start moving toward
     her. More Antibodies instantly appear from the same area.

496     EXT. EDGE OF CHASM

     Grant and Michaels are swimming over the curved mosaic cells.

497     INSIDE THE CHASM

     Grant and Michaels swim down toward Cora on the strands. Now the
     Antibodies become visible, gathering in increasing numbers as they
     stream up toward Cora. They are as yet unlinked, but she is
     unmistakably their target.

                         MICHAELS
                    (startled)
               Antibodies!... Coming at Cora! She's
               triggered them off!

498     

499     CORA ON STRANDS

     From her head-down position, she sees:

500     LONG SHOT - ANTIBODIES - CORA'S P.O.V.

     Streaming upward in increasing numbers toward her.

501     GRANT AND MICHAELS - IN CHASM

                         GRANT
               Doctor! Get back in the sub! Quick!

     Michaels starts swimming fast as he can toward the Proteus.

502     

503     EXT. CHASM - GRANT, CORA AND ANTIBODIES

     He is racing to reach Cora before they do.

504     ON THE AUDITORY STRANDS - IN CHASM

     From her head-down position, Cora sees vast numbers of: Antibodies,
     now nearer. Frantic with fear, she tries to free herself, causing the
     strands to start vibrating again, which calls forth more Antibodies to
     stream out of the far side. Grant reaches her, starts working
     desperately to get her loose. She tries to help as he yanks at her
     Breather Pack, trying to work it off the wires.

505     EXT. PROTEUS - COCHLEAR DUCT

     Near the edge of the chasm. Duval is seen at the bow windows, looking
     out anxiously.

506     INT. PROTEUS

     Duval turns as the door of the Escape Hatch opens from within and
     Michaels steps out. He closes the door quickly. The light over it
     instantly flashes red.

                         DUVAL
               Where are they?!

     As Michaels pulls off his swimming mask, breathing hard:

                         MICHAELS
               Below the Cells of Hensen. If those
               Antibodies reach her, they'll attack
               as if she were bacteria...

507     LONG SHOT - ANTIBODIES - IN CHASM - P.O.V. CORA (HEAD DOWN)

     They are beginning to link up.

508     EXT. CHASM - CORA AND GRANT

     He is still trying to get her Breather Pack loose.

                         CORA
                    (franticaliy)
               Hurry! Oh please, please!

     He manages to get her pack loose, now starts pulling the strands apart
     at her ankles so that she can extricate herself. As she finally does,
     they execute a half-somersault in the stream to start swimming upward.
     Both get a fleeting look at:

509     LONG SHOT - ANTIBODIES - P.O.V. GRANT AND CORA

     The links have now formed chains the  of Cora.

510     EXT. CHASM - GRANT AND CORA

     Grant grabs her at the torso and starts to propel her upward.

511     LONG SHOT - CHASM - ANTIBODIES AND PRINCIPALS

     The long links, in vast numbers, now race after the frantically
     swimming Cora and Grant.

512     EXT. EDGE OF CHASM

     Grant and Cora appear, swim over the slippery edge of the mosaic
     cells. She is too exhausted to keep up the pace. Grant holds her with
     one arm as he keeps swimming toward:

513     EXT. PROTEUS

     Duval and Michaels can be seen at the bow windows, looking out. Owens
     is visible within the Bubble, peering out anxiously.

514     EXT. VENTRAL HATCH

     The two reach it, Grant still helping Cora. They are at the point of
     exhaustion. Grant reacts as he sees:

515     LIGHT OVER VENTRAL HATCH

     Flashing red.

516     EXT. VENTRAL HATCH

     Grant waits, hand at the wheel. Cora looks back toward the edge of the
     chasm for signs of the Antibodies.

                         CORA
                    (gasping)
               Open it! Open it before they get
               here!

                         GRANT
               I can't till the hatch is flooded!

     At her look of fright, he turns and sees:

517     ANTIBODIES - EDGE OF CHASM - P.O.V. CORA AND GRANT

     The long links catapult over the edge of the chasm like Polaris
     missiles in flight, then begin to execute a turn for a massed attack
     in the direction of:

518-     
520

521     EXT. VENTRAL HATCH

     The light flashes green. Grant begins turning the wheel quickly as he
     can.

522     INTERCUT ANTIBODIES

     Hurtling down toward Cora, and the wheel turning.

523     EXT. VENTRAL HATCH

     Just as the door drops down, the vanguard of the Anti-bodies reaches
     Cora. Two coils whip transversely around her shoulders. There is no
     time to tear them off. Grant thrusts Cora through the door, then
     follows, with the massed attackers streaming in after them.

524     INT. ESCAPE HATCH

     Cora is clawing at the Antibodies which are coiling around her from
     every direction. For the moment, Grant can't help her as he struggles
     to close the door against:

525     ANTIBODIES AT VENTRAL DOOR

     The crystalline links are forcing their way in, against the pressure
     of the closing door. Grant struggles with all his strength against the
     coiling mass. Finally he manages to get the door closed and locked.

526     INT. ESCAPE HATCH - GRANT, CORA AND ANTIBODIES

     The water level starts falling, accompanied by the hissing of air
     pressure. Grant and Cora try to claw at the crystalline structures.
     But in the extremely narrow confines of the chamber, there is little
     either can do. Suddenly Cora's expression changes to one of horror and
     pain.

                         CORA
                    (gasping)
               They're tightening...

     Desperately, Grant tries to get at least one coil loose, but to no
     avail. The crystalline structures are now constricting around her.

527     INT. PROTEUS

     Duval and Michaels stand before the Escape Hatch, waiting for the red
     light to change to green.

                         DUVAL
                    (up at Bubble)
               How much longer?!

                         OWENS' VOICE
                    (from above)
               Ten seconds --

                         DUVAL
               That's too long!

     He starts to twist the wheel, to open the Hatch.

528     INT. ESCAPE HATCH

     The water is now down to their knees. Grant is still pulling at one of
     the many links around Cora, but without any effect.

                         CORA
                    (barely audible)
               Please -- I -- can't -- can't
               breathe...

     And she is cut off as all the Antibodies lock into place. Her mouth
     remains open, in the manner of someone being choked to death. The
     crystalline coils about her body give her the appearance of a female
     Laocoon... Suddenly the entrance door is thrust open behind them.

529     INT. PROTEUS

     Water pours out from the Escape hatch as Grant drags Cora out. She
     falls on the floor. Duval and Michaels instantly start pulling at the
     Antibodies. Cora is almost unconscious. Grant joins in the frantic
     effort to free her. And then Owens, who comes bounding down from the
     Bubble. All four men pull at the structures with all their strength.
     And suddenly they begin to break off, shattering into crystalline
     fragments. With some coils broken, the others soon lose their lethal
     adhesion. Finally Cora is free. As soon as she finds her breath, she
     begins to cry hysterically. Duval bends over, calming her.

530     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     All are still immoblle, sweating out the long wait. The Female
     Surgical Aide who caused the scissors to drop stands holding the
     towel. The scissors is still on the floor at her feet. In the silence,
     she carefully reaches out and dabs at the rivulets of sweat running
     down the Head Surgeon's face. Now all are concentrating on the:

531     TRACKING DEVICES

     Moving silently back and forth across Benes' head, the only contact
     with what is transpiring within.

532     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Reid is looking down into the OPERATING ROOM, Carter is pouring two
     fresh cups of coffee. At the SOUND of a warning buzz, both look at the
     TV monitor. They see the INTERIOR OF THE TRACKING POST. The blip is
     moving on the radar screen.

                         COMMUNICATIONS AIDE
               Proteus proceeding toward Quadrant
               75...

     Reid takes the coffee which Carter extends.

                         REID
                    (relieved)
               On their way again...

     Carter glances at the Minute Recorder. It now reads <12>. He upends
     empty sugar container without looking at it.

                         CARTER
               Twelve minutes left --
                    (breaks off; sees no
                    sugar)
               Of all the time to run out of
               sugar...

534     EXT. ENDOLYMPHATIC DUCT

     The Proteus is speeding through the very wide passage.

535     INT. PROTEUS

     Michaels is spreading out a chart of the Brain, with the help of
     Duval. As the complexity comes into view, Grant reacts. With glance at
     the Minute Recorder:

                         GRANT
               Looks like quite a way to go...

                         MICHAELS
               No, we should reach the base of the
               Brain shortly. And from there, it's
               not far to the site of the injury.

     Suddenly, light pours in. Astonished, Grant sees:

536     HUGE OVAL MEMBRANE - THROUGH BOW WINDOWS

     Semi-transparent. The immense pillars which form the Stapes of the
     Inner Ear are illuminated by the light behind it.

                         GRANT'S VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               Where's that light coming from?

                         MICHAELS' VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               The outside world. Filtering in
               through Benes' Eardrum...

537     INT. PROTEUS

     Duval bends over the chart.

                         DUVAL
                    (pointing; to Michaels)
               That puts us right here... Which
               means we can head straight for the
               Sub Arachnoid Cavity.

                         MICHAELS
               Yes...

                         DUVAL
               If we can go in past the Oculomotor
               Nerve...

     As both men remain bent over the chart, conferring, Grant moves into:

538     INT. LAB AND STORAGE SECTION

     Cora is lying on the cot. As Grant enters, she starts to rise.

                         GRANT
               No need to get up --

                         CORA
               I feel much better now...

     But she remains seated, still weak. As the light grows brighter:

                         CORA
                    (quietly)
               The outside world... I thought I'd
               never see it again.

     Grant stops at the laser which is fastened securely, runs his hand
     along it.

                         CORA
                    (turning to Grant)
               Thank you for saving my life.

                         GRANT
               That's what they pay me for.

                         CORA
               A great deal more than that, I
               believe...

     He looks up from the laser.

                         GRANT
               Such as?

                         CORA
               Keeping an eye on Dr. Duval...

                         GRANT
                    (into the silence)
               What gives you that idea?

     The light now dims back to normal, indicating they have passed the
     Eardrum.

                         CORA
               That's why you're really here. I
               knew it from the start.

                         GRANT
               As obvious as that? Our Security
               people will jump for joy.
                    (with smile)
               I suppose Duval's onto me, too?

                         CORA
               You're not the first, but he's much
               too innocent, much too involved with
               his work, to realize what's going on
               around him.

                         GRANT
               Under a cloud without cause, I take
               it.

                         CORA
               Oh, no. Plenty of cause. He won't
               follow the herd, or change his
               convictions -- even when they're not
               popular. And he believes in an
               absolutely free interchange of
               information between scientists of
               different countries -- and these
               days, there's nothing more
               suspicious than that.

                         GRANT
               Depends on which end of the
               telescope you look through.

                         CORA
               What do you mean?

                         GRANT
               Well, if you happen to be very fond
               of him -- even in love with him --
               it would certainly affect your point
               of view.

     Before she can answer, they hear:

                         DUVAL'S VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               It's out of the question.

                         MICHAELS' VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               Now be reasonable!

                         DUVAL'S VOICE
               I won't do it.

                         GRANT
               Sounds like trouble...

     The two move toward the door.

539     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant and Cora silently witness:

                         DUVAL
               It's against my better Judgment...

                         MICHAELS
               Better Judgment?! To wait until the
               actual operation -- when it may be
               too late?

                         DUVAL
               I've done all I could with the
               laser.

                         MICHAELS
               All I'm asking is you test it
               beforehand!

                         DUVAL
               If it won't work, it's beyond my
               power to fix it. But if it does,
               there's no telling how long it will
               hold up. It's a jury rig, at best,
               and we'll need every second of use
               we can get out of it. That's why I
               don't want to put any extra strain
               on the connections by running
               unnecessary tests.

                         MICHAELS
               Dr. Duvall I insist you test the
               laser.

                         DUVAL
                    (angrily)
               I'll do nothing of the sort! The
               operation is  responsibility! I
               won't do it, and that's final!

                         MICHAELS
                    (controlling himself
                    with difficulty)
               As usual, you want everything your
               way. Except this time there's more
               than your damned ego at stake.

                         DUVAL
                    (tightly)
               I know only too well what's in the
               balance, Doctor. And it's not my
               ego, damned or otherwise.

540     GRANT

     Looking thoughtfully after Duval.

541     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Reid and Carter are relieved to hear:

                         COMMUNICATIONS AIDE
               Proteus turning into Quadrant 791
               Level F.

     Reid presses button.

542     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     Still in tableau. All hear:

                         REID'S VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               The Proteus has passed the Inner
               Ear.

     Instantly the tension breaks. There is coughing, clearing of throats.
     Someone sneezes, evoking:

                         AD LIBS
               --     Just in time! I couldn't hold
                    it back another second!
               --     I was afraid to !
               --     My foot's asleep.
               --     Only one?
               --     I thought I'd die when the
                    scissors hit the floor!

     The Female Surgical Aide picks up the scissors.

543     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Reid is moving to the window overlooking the MAIN OPS ROOM. Carter
     turns from the Minute Recorder, which now reads <8>.

                         CARTER
                    (on edge)
               Only eight minutes left...

     As he joins Reid and both look down into the MAIN OPS ROOM, they see
     the Grid Officer moving the Proteus to the Quadrant at the base of the
     Brain.

                         REID
                    (softly)
               Imagine -- they're in the Human
               Mind --

544     

545     CEREBRAL LIGHTS

     A dazzling display of flashing lights fills the screen. Then as the
     CAMERA PANS DOWN slowly, we see a high wall of complex circuitry, in
     which the tiny lights glow on and off rapidly. Finally, as the CAMERA
     NEARS the bottom, it reveals:

546     EXT. PROTEUS - IN CRANIAL FJORD

     The sub seems a mere speck as it cruises through a chasm formed by two
     walls of similar circuitry and electronic pyrotechnics. There is a
     sense of order despite the complexity.

547     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant has joined Cora and Duval at the bow. The three are deeply
     impressed and moved by what they see. Michaels remains at the chart.
     As they look on:

                         DUVAL
                    (softly)
               "Yet all the suns that light the
               Corridors of the Universe shine dim,
               Before the blazing of a Single
               Thought -- "

                         GRANT
               "Proclaiming in incandescent glory
               The myriad Mind of Man..."

     Cora looks at Grant in rather surprised awareness of this other side
     of him.

                         MICHAELS
               Very poetic, gentlemen. You seem to
               see a great deal out there. Let me
               know when we pass the Soul.

     Duval turns from the bow windows to face Michaels with the answer:

                         DUVAL
                    (quietly)
               The Soul? The finite mind cannot
               comprehend Infinity. And the Soul
               which comes from God is Infinite.

                         MICHAELS
               Take a close look at your Soul, and
               your Infinity, and your God out
               there --

548     GRANT

     In thoughtful response to:

                         MICHAELS' VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               -- and you'll find it's nothing but
               a combination of atoms, molecules --

549     INT. PROTEUS

     Not letting Duval interrupt:

                         MICHAELS
               --and certain chemicals involving
               proteins --

                         DUVAL
               You left something out.

                         MICHAELS
               What's that?

                         DUVAL
                    (flatly)
               The Breath of God...

     Before Michaels can reply:

                         OWENS' VOICE
                    (from Bubble)
               Doctor -- what's that up ahead?

     They turn toward bow, see:

550     EXT. FOREST OF DENDRITES

     As it comes into view with the sub turning the corner of the chasm: a
     huge semi-circular area of branchlike nerves, through which the
     cerebral lights flash. In the center is the site of the injury. The
     lights stop at its perimeter, as if short-circuited, causing a dark
     area.

                         DUVAL
                    (up at Bubble)
               There it is. That's the site of the
               injury -- the dark spot. We'd better
               get prepared.

     They move into the Lab Section, where they put on their Breather Packs
     quickly during:

                         MICHAELS
               It's too late...

     Startled, they follow his look, see the Minute Recorder now reads <6>.

                         MICHAELS
               You couldn't possibly operate and
               get out before the hour's up.
                    (up at Bubble)
               Captain, keep going. Head for the
               Removal Point.

     He begins to spread out a map of the Removal Area.

                         DUVAL
               Removal Point? What're you talking
               about!

                         MICHAELS
               We have no alternative. With only
               six minutes left, we'll just barely
               make it.

                         GRANT
                    (up at Bubble)
               Hold it, Skipper.
                    (to Michaels)
               What happens if we overstay?

                         MICHAELS
               Once time's up, De-Miniaturization
               begins. In a matter of seconds the
               ship will grow big enough to become
               a danger to the System. Then White
               Corpuscles will swarm to destroy it,
               as they would any invader.

                         GRANT
                    (up at Bubble)
               How long will it take to get from
               here to the Removal Point?

                         OWENS'VOICE
                    (from above)
               Approximately two minutes.

                         DUVAL
               That still leaves me four minutes to
               operate.

                         MICHAELS
               All you'll succeed in doing is
               getting us trapped!
                    (glancing at Minute
                    Recorder)
               Captain, you will proceed
               immediately to the Removal Point.

                         OWENS' VOICE
                    (from above)
               Yes sir.

     Grant moves quickly to the Manual Panel and throws some key switches
     into the OFF position.

551     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens is startled to see the lights over the buttons go off, rendering
     the controls inoperative. The sub comes to a stop at some distance
     from the Forest of Dendrites and the dark area up ahead.

                         OWENS
               My power's gone!
                    (looks down, sees him)
               Grant -- what're you doing!

551A     INT. PROTEUS

     With manner of taking over:

                         GRANT
               Get the laser, Dr. Duval.

     As Duval and Cora move quickly into the Lab Section:

                         MICHAELS
                    (furiously)
               I'm in charge of this mission! You
               were instructed to take orders from
               me, not give them!

                         GRANT
               Sorry, but the situation has
               changed.

                         MICHAELS
               Nothing has changed as far as 
               authority goes! He is  going to
               operate! Not in the little time we
               have left! There's no chance of
               success! It's sheer suicide for all
               of us!

     He breaks off as Duval and Cora come out of the Lab Section carrying
     the laser and power unit. As they move to the Escape Hatch door, which
     Grant opens:

                         MICHAELS
                    (furiously)
               Dr. Duval, you are not going through
               with this! I absolutely forbid it!
               I'm responsible for the lives of
               everyone here! I will not allow you
               or anyone else to leave this ship!

                         DUVAL
               I'm going to do what I can to save
               Benes.

     He steps into the Escape Hatch with Cora. Grant closes the door.

                         MICHAELS
                    (rageng at Grant)
               You fool! Don't you see what you've
               done? You've given him a perfect
               opportunity to kill Benes!

     The lights start flashing red, indicating the Escape Hatch is being
     flooded. Grant puts on his Breather Pack during:

                         GRANT
               I don't believe that.

                         MICHAELS
               Why not? Because of his gibberish
               about GOd and the Soul? Camouflage
               -- that's all it is -- to blind the
               gullible like you! And to hide his
               real identity -- a fanatic whose
               only purpose is to kill Benes! And
               you made it possible!

     The light over the Escape Hatch turns green. As Grant opens the door:

                         GRANT
               I've come up against fanatics
               before, and Duval just doesn't fit
               the pattern.
                    (up at Bubble)
               I'm going out there, Skipper. Maybe
               I can be of some help...

                         OWENS
               Remember -- we can't take more than
               five minutes to get out.

     As Grant starts closing the door, he glances at:

551B     MINUTE RECORDER

     It now reads <5>.

551C     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant closes the door. The light over it flashes red. Michaels moves
     to the bow window to observe:

552-     
553

554     EXT. SITE OF INJURY - P.O.V. MICHAELS

     Duval and Cora are swimming toward the dark spot with the laser and
     the power unit. They reach:

555     EXT. SITE OF INJURY - CLOSER

     Duval presses the laser control, not knowing if it will work. To his
     relief, a beam of light shoots out. Instantly a small portion of the
     clot begins to light up. This gradual encroachment of flashing lights
     in place of the dark area marks the progress of the operation.

556-     
557

557A     EXT. VENTRAL HATCH

     Grant drops out and starts toward Duval and Cora.

558     SECTION OF THROMBUS IN BRAIN

     The laser beam is slowly dissolving away a small portion of the vast
     darkness. Grant swims up. He glances at his wrist watch.

                         GRANT
               How does it look, Doctor?

                         DUVAL
                    (as he works)
               If I can relieve the pressure on a
               few key vessels...

     More of the dark area lights up.

559     

560     INT. PROTEUS - AT BOW WINDOWS

     Watching, Michaels responds grimly to the increasing number of
     flashing lights in the injured area. He turns with grim resolution
     from the bow.

                         MICHAELS
                    (up at Bubble)
               Skipper...

560A     INT. BUBBLE

     Owens is startled to hear:

                         MICHAELS' VOICE
                    (from below)
               There seems to be something wrong
               with the Escape Hatch...

                         OWENS
               What do you mean?

                         MICHAELS' VOICE
                    (from below;
                    imperatively)
               Fluid is seeping through. Better
               come down and have a look!

     Quickly, Owens starts slipping out of his harness, starts down the
     ladder leading into:

560B     INT. PROTEUS - AT ESCAPE HATCH DOOR

     Michaels is not visible in the angle of the shot as Owens moves to the
     Escape Hatch, looking for the seepage. Seeing nothing wrong:

                         OWENS
                    (turning; puzzled)
               I don't see any sign of --

     He breaks off, his expression reflecting horrified surprise as a hand
     wielding the heavy crank of the winch smashes down on his head before
     he has a chance to dodge it. Owens slumps to the floor at the feet of:

561     MICHAELS

     He drops the heavy tool, goes quickly to the Manual Panel, throws the
     switches back into the ON position, restoring all the controls to
     where they were before Grant changed them. Then he climbs up into:

562     INT. BUBBLE

     The lights over the buttons are all on again, indicating the controls
     are in working order. As Michaels sits down hastily and begins to slip
     into the harness, with him we see:

563     

564     EXT. SITE OF INJURY

     Duval is aiming the laser in short bursts at a dark area around the
     large Central Nerve. Grant glances at his wrist watch.

                         GRANT
               Doctor, we've just about had it.

                         DUVAL
               It I can clear this Central Nerve,
               that  be enough...

     Unseen by them:

565     LONG SHOT - PROTEUS

     In the distance it is swinging around in a wide arc  them.

566-     
567

568     INT. BUBBLE

     As Michaels maneuvers into position, he responds grimly to:

569     EXT. SITE OF INJURY - P.O.V. INT. BUBBLE

     Light begins to play along sections of the Central Nerve.

570-     
571

572     INT. BUBBLE

     The bow is now lined up straight with the Central Nerve. Face set,
     Michaels presses the FULL SPEED button.

573     EXT. JETS

     The churning indicates full power is on. The Proteus spurts ahead,
     speeding toward:

574     EXT. SITE OF INJURY - CENTRAL NERVE

     More and more of the Central Nerve lights up as the intervening
     darkness is dissolved by precise bursts of the laser beam. Unaware of
     the oncoming sub, Duval and Cora keep working. As Grant glances at his
     wrist watch, electrical impulses begin racing in a continuous flow
     through the Central Nerve, which is now incandescent along its entire
     height.

                         DUVAL
               That should be enough...

     He looks critically at the results, as he normally would.

                         GRANT
               We better get back to the sub. Every
               second counts now.

                         CORA
                    (suddenly)
               Look! They follow the direction of
               her glance, are startled to see:

575     EXT. PROTEUS

     Speeding directly toward the Central Nerve high above them. The person
     in the Bubble is indeterminate at the distance and angle.

                         CORA'S VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               It's heading right for the Nerve!

                         DUVAL'S VOICE
                    (o.s., confused)
               I don't understand...

576     EXT. SITE OF INJURY

     As they watch helplessly:

                         GRANT
                    (getting idea)
               The laser! Let me have the laser!

     Grant grabs the laser from Duval. With Cora trailing, holding the
     power unit, Grant leads the way upward at an angle to intercept:

577-     
589

590     EXT. PROTEUS

     It is speeding toward the Central Nerve like a projectile homing in on
     a target.

591     INT. BUBBLE

     The incandescent Central Nerve looms closer and closer. Michaels holds
     the controls in place with the fixed look of a pilot on a suicide
     course.

592     GRANT, CORA AND PROTEUS

     He stops swimming. She remains near him. The sub is now over their
     heads, at an angle which makes the rudder visible.

                         GRANT
               Give me your widest beam! Full
               power!

     Cora turns a dial on the power unit. Grant takes careful aim. A wide
     beam shoots out from the laser, across the intervening distance and
     hits:

593     EXT. RUDDER AND REAR HULL

     The concentrated light disintegrates the rudder and burns open a large
     section of the hull.

593A     INT. LAB SECTION

     Fluid pours through the hole into:

594     

594A     INT. PROTEUS

     The intact section with its trapped air holds off total inundation.
     The unconscious Owens stirs, face up, the liquid just short of
     covering him. The sub begins to keel, owing to the inflow.

594B     INT. BVBBLE

     Michaels wrestles with the controls, trying to keep on course, as the
     Central Nerve ahead looms closer and closer. For a moment it appears
     he will be able to ram it. But the increasing tilt suddenly causes:

594C     EXT. PROTEUS - CENTRAL NERVE

     To dive at a sharp angle, just barely missing the Central Nerve.

595     INT. BUBBLE

     Michaels wrestles with the controls, but to no avail. Through the
     Bubble, he is startled to see:

596     EXT. FOREST OF DENDRITES - P.O.V. BUBBLE

     It looms closer and closer as the Proteus dives inexorably toward:

597     EXT. FOREST OF DENDRITES

     Treelike branching nerves form an intricate mesh as if in a dense
     forest. The Proteus careens into it, tearing loose a section of nerve
     fibers. The sub keels over on one side.

598     

598A     INT. BUBBLE

     Now at a sharp tilt. The impact causes one of the arms of the swivel
     chair to spring out of place, pinning Michaels to the seat. Lying at
     an angle, he struggles to break loose, without avail. Suddenly his
     startled eyes fix on:

599     THE MINUTE RECORDER ON CONTROL PANEL

     It flashes <0>. The lights begin to dim.

599A     INT. CONTROL TOWER - MINUTE RECORDER

     Flashing <0>. The SOUND of a warning siren is on loud. It continues
     during the scene, adding urgency to the reactions of all. Reid and
     Carter exchange grim looks.

                         REID
               Time's up... We'll have to take them
               out immediately.

                         CARTER
               It means killing Benes...
                    (savagely)
               And for all we know, they may have
               completed the operation!
                    (slamming table)
               Damn it to hell!

     He turns away. Reid goes to the window overlooking the OPERATING R00M.

                         REID
               Remove the Proteus...

599B     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     For a moment only the undulating wail of the warning siren is heard.
     Then:

                         CHIEF SURGEON
               Prepare for trepanation...

     One of the Surgical Technicians begins swabbing Benes' head with
     alcohol.

599C     

599D     INT. BUBBLE

     The lights are almost out. It is now lit only by the eerie glow of the
     pulsing flashes in the Forest of Dendrites. Michaels is vainly trying
     to pry the steel arm loose, but it holds him in a vise-like grip in
     the chair. He looks fearfully toward the bow window, as if knowing
     what to expect next.

600     EXT. EDGE OF FOREST OF DENDRITES

     Grant, Duval and Cora are swimming through the maze of nerves toward
     the sub lying at a sharp keel.

                         GRANT
               The ship's good as finished. We'll
               have to get out on our own! Is there
               a quick way out?

                         DUVAL
               We could follow the Optic Nerve to
               the corner of the Eye.

                         CORA
               It's beginning to grow...

     They stop, treading water as they see:

600A     EXT. PROTEUS

     Growing visibly before their eyes.

600AA     INT. BUBBLE

     Michaels reacts as he sees the dendrites outside growing ,
     which indicates the sub and he are growing larger.

600B     EXT. EDGE OF FOREST OF DENDRITES

                         DUVAL
               We've got to get them out.

     As he starts toward the sub, Grant stops him.

                         GRANT
               Hold it...

     They follow his look, see:

601     WHITE CORPUSCLES - IN FOREST OF DENDRITES

     Huge monster-like blobs are starting to ooze through the nerves toward
     the Proteus, which is now about a quarter as large as when last seen,
     and growing rapidly.

                         CORA'S VOICE
                    (o.s., horrified)
               White Corpuscles!

602     EXT. EDGE OF FOREST OF DENDRITES

                         DUVAL
               They'll ingest the ship and
               everything in it!

                         GRANT
               Stay here, both of you. Hold them
               off, if you can.

     He hands the laser to Duval and starts swimming toward:

602A     EXT. PROTEUS - IN FOREST OF DENDRITES

     The White Corpuscles are slithering through the interlaced dendrites.
     They are still some distance from the disabled sub.

602     MICHAELS - IN BUBBLE

     He is horrified to see the White Corpuscles slide into his view,
     though still removed from the sub. He renews his frantic effort to
     break loose from the steel grip of the sprung arm.

602BB     EXT. DAMAGED HULL

     Grant swims the hole through into:

602CC     INT. LAB AND STORAGE SECTION

     Quickly he makes his way through the narrow flooded area, picking up
     two Breather Packs en route.

602DD     INT. PROTEUS

     Grant emerges into the air-filled portion, pushes up his swim mask. He
     takes in the prone Owens and Michaels pinned in the Bubble as:

                         MICHAELS
                    (frantically)
               Grant! Help!

     For a moment Grant stands between the unconscious man and the one
     trapped in the Bubble. Then he hurriedly unzips Owens' jumper,
     revealing the swim suit beneath. Owens regains consciousness. During
     the above:

                         GRANT
               What happened?

                         OWENS
                    (in a daze)
               Dr. Michaels... He went berserk...

                         GRANT
                    (with realization)
               Berserk nothing. He's the one who's
               been sabotaging the mission...
                    (handing him Breather
                    Pack)
               Get this on. Hurry!

                         MICHAELS' VOICE
                    (from Bubble;
                    frantically)
               Grant!

602EE     INT. BUBBLE

     A monster-like cell is slithering toward the Bubble. Michaels is
     tearing at the steel arm that holds him to the chair.

                         MICHAELS
                    (with growing terror)
               Macrophages!

     Moving against the extreme tilt, Grant appears. Responding to the
     oncoming White Corpuscle, Grant pulls at the steel arm with all his
     strength.

                         MICHAELS
                    (during above)
               Get me out of here. Get me out!!

     For all his effort, Grant is unable to free Michaels.

602FF     WHITE CORPUSCLE

     Gradually oozes over the entire Bubble, covering it.

602GG     INT. BUBBLE

     Grant makes a last desperate effort to free Michaels as he sees the
     Bubble begin to dissolve beneath the body of the adhering White
     Corpuscle. As the fluid body begins flowing over Michaels:

                         MICHAELS
                    (in terror)
               No...no...

     His scream is cut off by the White Corpuscle engulfing him. Grant
     jumps back into:

602HH     INT. PROTEUS

                         OWENS
               Come on -- it's no use!

                         GRANT
               We can get out through the Lab
               Section.

     Both pull down their swim masks. Owens moves off, followed by Grant.

602II     INT. LAB SECTION

     Owens is swimming through the hole. Grant follows through the cramped
     area.

602JJ     EXT. PROTEUS

     Owens appears, swims off toward Duval and Cora. The two are working
     the laser and power unit. Duval is hitting the White Corpuscles and
     dissolving them in an attempt to keep them off the sub, but without
     avail. The monster cells are swarming in greater numbers.

602KK     EXT. DAMAGED RUDDER

     A monster White Corpuscle is flowing along it, down toward the hole.
     As Grant now emerges, the White Corpuscle grasps him in its tentacles.

602B-     
602D

602E     GRANT AND WHITE CORPUSCLE

     He struggles, unable to break out of the fluid mass which engulfs him.

602F     EXT. EDGE OF FOREST OF DENDRITES

     Duval and Cora swim up. Duval aims the laser, presses the trigger. The
     beam shoots out with surgical precision, making a direct hit on:

602G     VACUOLE OF WHITE CORPUSCLE

     The nucleus of the monster cell disintegrates, releasing Grant. He
     swims quickly toward:

602H     EXT. FOREST OF DENDRITES

     The three see another White Corpuscle moving after Grant. Duval
     dissolves it just as the laser goes dead. As Grant reaches them:

                         GRANT
               You said there was a quick way out!

                         DUVAL
               What about Dr. Michaels?

                         GRANT
               It's too late!

     Duval drops the laser, turns and starts to swim off. Cora drops the
     power unit. With Duval in the lead, they swim as fast as they can
     through:

602I     EXT. FOREST OF DENDRITES

     The dendrites are now  in relat1on to the four as they keep
     on through the Cranial Region of flashing lights.

603     EXT. PROTEUS

     White Corpuscles are now festooned all over the sub and flowing in
     through the Bubble and damaged portion of the hull.

604-     
606

607     EXT. EDGE OF FOREST OF DENDRITES

     The swimmers look back and respond to:

607A     EXT. PROTEUS

     It is crumbling like the Hindenburg Zeppelin. The White Corpuscles are
     swarming over the remains, ingesting every particle.

607B     THE GROUP

     Reacting to the destructive power of these internal defenders. They
     swim off.

608-     
616

616A     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     The Chief Surgeon's gloves are on. Now all start to take their places
     around the Operating Table. The operating beams are switched on. The
     Chief Surgeon holds out one hand. A Surgical Nurse slaps a scalpel
     into it.

616B     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Standing at the window overlooking the OPERATING ROOM, Carter and Reid
     can see the Chief Surgeon bending down over Benes' head, about to make
     an incision. Carter suddenly gets an idea, presses button.

                         CARTER
               Hold it, Doctor!

616C     BENES' HEAD AND SCALPEL

     The cutting edge is a fraction of an inch from the shaved head. It
     stops just in time. The Chief Surgeon and the Surgical Team around the
     table look up toward the window.

617     

618     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Reid looks tensely at Carter.

                         REID
               What is it?

                         CARTER
               That blip we're picking up might
               only be the radio-active particle.
               The Proteus may already be
               destroyed...

                         REID
               What're you getting at?

                         CARTER
                    (thoughtfully)
               If I were in their place and I'd run
               out of time, I'd abandon the ship
               before I grew to dangerous size...
               and use the few extra minutes to get
               out the quickest way possible, on my
               own...

                         REID
                    (with quick realization)
               Along the Optic Nerve to the Eye.

     Swiftly, Reid crosses to the window overlooking the OPERATING ROOM. He
     presses button.

619     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     The Chief Surgeon and the others exchange tense looks as they hear:

                         REID'S VOICE
                    (o.s.)
               Wait thirty seconds...

     He rushes through the door leading down to the Operating Room.

620     

621     EXT. ARACHNOID CORRIDOR - RIGHT OPTIC NERVE

     Composed of a cobweb of fibers. Sausage-like links, pinched in the
     center, compose the walls of the winding passage. These are the Nodes
     of Ranvier. Intermittent flashes leap across the Nodes, of varying
     intensity and duration.

622     THE GROUP - IN RIGHT OPTIC NERVE

     As he keeps swimming, Duval turns his head to the others.

                         DUVAL
                    (encouragingly)
               Light impulses -- on the way to the
               Brain! We're nearing the Eye!

     They swim on with renewed effort. They are now larger in relation to
     what they pass. Cora starts to fall behind, unable to maintain the
     pace, for all her valiant effort. Grant puts one arm around her waist
     and thus manages to keep after Duval and Owens.

623-     
628

629     EXT. APEX OF CORNEA

     The four climb up on what appears to be the top of a huge transparent
     mound. The fluid is rapidly seeping upward from the channel below. A
     low-domed ceiling -- the inside of the Eyelid -- which is bisected by
     a crack, necessitates their crawling over the mound toward a crevice
     which affords more height. They force themselves along exhausted, and
     reach:

630     

631     INT. CREVICE BETWEEN EYELIDS

     The four reach the grotto-like niche, where they can stand erect at
     their increased size. As they rise from their crawling position and
     lean panting in exhaustion against the wall:

632-     
639

640     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     Reid wheels over a magnifying glass mounted on a stand. He bends down
     and pries open Benes' right Eyelid.

641     INT. CREVICE BETWEEN RIGHT EYELIDS

     The four, their breath now regained, react in response to the
     unexpected:

642     PARTING OF RIGHT EYELIDS

     The bisected dome above them parts like the walls of the Red Sea.
     Simultaneously the beam of the operating lights blaze in with blinding
     intensity, causing the four to shield their eyes and look down into
     the retina.

642A     KALEIDOSCOPIC EFFECT

     A symphony of colors is reflecting from the cones far beneath, through
     the VITREOUS BODY and the manifold furrows of the IRIS.

643-     
645

646     REID

     He is bringing the magnifying glass into focal position. As he squints
     through it, he reacts on seeing:

647     THE FOUR - THROUGH MAGNIFYING GLASS - ON SURFACE OF EYEBALL

     Now magnified, we see the four figures being swept inexorably toward
     the far corner of the Eye by a flood of water.

                         REID
                    (o.s.)
               A glass slide! Quick!

     Through the magnifying glass, we see their frantic attempts to fight
     the sweep of the cascade. Just as the four near the fall-off point,
     where the corner of the lids Join, the magnified end of a glass slide
     comes into view and catches the teardrop -- with the four in it.

648     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     Reid carefully straightens up, holding the glass slide. He can barely
     see:

649     EXT. GLASS SLIDE

     Tiny specks are visible in the teardrop, moving about in the fluid.

650     INT. OPERATING ROOM

     All respond to Reid's imperative:

                         REID
               Open those doors!

     Holding the slide so the teardrop doesn't spill, Reid moves quickly
     through the sliding doors into the Miniaturization Room.

650A     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Carter rushes to the window overlooking the MINIATURIZATION ROOM.

650B     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     All group around in silence, holding their breath as Reid very slowly
     and carefully bends down and places the glass slide on the platform.
     Above, at the window, Carter can be seen looking down.

651     EXT. GLASS SLIDE - ON FLOOR

     The tiny spots are growing visibly before our eyes.

652     INT. CONTROL TOWER

     Carter, looking down into the MINIATURIZATION ROOM, reacts as the four
     dots below on the glass slide continue to grow and grow to the point
     where they can be discerned on the platform, and a bedraggled quartet
     it is. They look like survivors of a shipwreck: dripping wet,
     exhausted, all the fight knocked out of them. Owens is seated, head
     between his drawn-up knees; Cora is leaning against Grant for support;
     Duval is fighting for breath.

653     

653A     INT. MINIATURIZATION ROOM

     Now fully grown, the four look about, amazed at where they are. And
     the Surgical Team and Reid encircling them are staring with equal
     confoundment...

                                             DISSOLVE TO:

654     INT. CORRIDOR -  HOSPITAL SECTION - DAY

     Grant and Owens are driving a scooter. Both are rested, freshly
     groomed. The scooter goes through door marked:

                         

     The scooter stops in:

654A-     
658

658A     INT. MEDICAL FOYER

     They alight and go through door leading into:

658B     INT. HOSPITAL ROOM

     As Grant and Owens enter, they see Benes is propped up on his bed,
     with Carter, Duval, Cora and Reid grouped around him. Grant moves
     immediately to Benes.

                         GRANT
                    (warmly; extending hand)
               Hello, Mr. Benes... How's the prize
               patient?

     Benes smiles as they shake hands.

                         DUVAL
                    (beaming)
               He's making a fine recovery.

                         CORA
               He certainly is. He should be up and
               about in no time.

                         OWENS
               That's great.

     Grant and Owens look toward Carter, who is pacing, visibly upset.

                         CARTER
                    (answering their look)
               Oh yes, great. The only problem is,
               he can't remember what he came to
               tell us.

                         GRANT
               Can't remember?... What do you mean?

                         CARTER
               He's blanked out on that one
               particular point.

                         REID 
               Yes, he can remember everything --
               except how to control De-
               Miniaturization...

                         GRANT
               Oh, no.

                         OWENS
               After all that.

                         DUVAL
               A specific area of memory may have
               been destroyed by the laser beam
               when Dr. Michaels interfered.

                         CARTER
               As long as it isn't a certainty,
               we've got to try everything possible
               to make him remember!

                         OWENS
               Well, if you have no further need
               for me...

                         GRANT
               Yes, we'd like to get moving.

                         CARTER
                    (mind only on Benes)
               Why don't you go on. We'll meet you
               at the Clearance Desk in a few
               minutes.

     He paces, looking at Benes while:

                         GRANT
               Good-bye, Mr. Benes. I must say it's
               been quite an experience knowing
               you.

     Benes smiles weakly at the double-entendre. As Grant starts out with
     Owens:

                         CARTER
               Now how soon can we try Sodium
               Pentathol?

                         REID
               I'd hold that off awhile.

                         CARTER
               Well, how about hypnosis? That can't
               hurt him!

     Benes closes his eyes wearily.

                         DUVAL
               I suggest the first thing we try is
               letting the patient get some rest.

     As he starts herding them out and they reach the door, they are
     startled by a loud CRASH o.s. They rush out.

658C     

659     TWO SCOOTERS - AT INTERSECTION

     Another scooter has run into the one containing Grant and Owens with
     such impact that the two have been tossed out. The M.P. is blowing his
     whistle, stopping all traffic.

660     THE GROUP

     Carter, Reid, Duval and Cora are running toward:

661     THE INTERSECTION

     Grant is rising, holding the side of his head. Owens, dazed but
     uninjured, is also getting up. As the others reach them:

                         DUVAL
                    (of Grant)
               He may have a head injury!
                    (to Reid)
               Get him to the hospital!

     Instantly, Grant grabs Owens and hustles him to their scooter.

                         GRANT
               Who, me? Oh, no! Don't bother about
               me! We're not hurt! Isn't that
               right, Skipper?

                         OWENS
                    (dazed)
               Uh -- what?

                         GRANT
                    (getting him into
                    scooter)
               We feel great, don't we? Just
               ?!

                         OWENS
                    (catching on)
               Oh -- sure, sure! Never better!

                         GRANT
                    (taking off)
               Nothing wrong with us! Not a thing!
               We're fine -- just fine!

     In his haste, he almost runs into another scooter but averts a crash
     by a matter of inches. He keeps going at top speed, by-passing the
     stopped traffic by traveling in the wrong lane.

662     LONG SHOT - SCOOTER

     As it is lost to view down the long corridor...

                                             FADE OUT

                         T H E  E N D

