In 1988, 11-year old Dade "Zero Cool" Murphy is arrested and charged with crashing 1,507 computer systems in a single day and causing a single-day 7-point drop in the New York Stock Exchange.
Upon conviction, his family is fined $45,000 for the events, and although he is not convicted, he is banned from owning or operating computers or touch-tone telephones until he is 18 years old.

Seven years later, Dade (Jonny Lee Miller), is now living alone with his mother (his parents are divorced) and bought himself a computer again since he can now own it.
One day, he calls a local television station, dupes the security guard into giving him the modem's phone number and successfully hacks into the station's computer network, changing the current TV program to an episode of The Outer Limits.
However, Dade is "attacked" by a hacker (handle "Acid Burn") on the same network, and they converse together.
During the conversation, Dade identifies himself by a new alias, Crash Override, rather than reveal himself as "Zero Cool".

Dade enrolls at Stuyvesant High School in New York, where he meets Kate Libby (Angelina Jolie), who is assigned to take him on a tour of the school.
After pranking Dade by claiming there's a pool on the roof of the school, only to lock him outside with several other students during a rainstorm, a rift develops between Dade and Kate.
Ramon "The Phantom Phreak" Sanchez (Renoly Santiago) takes notice of Dade's skills and invites him to a hacker nightclub, Cyberdelia, where the rivalry between Dade and Kate intensifies as Dade beats Kate's high score in "Wipeout".

Soon after, Dade exacts revenge for the earlier prank by scheduling a test of the school's sprinkler system the next day.
Dade begins integrating himself into Phreak's circle of hacker friends: Emmanuel "Cereal Killer" Goldstein (Matthew Lillard), Paul "Lord Nikon" Cook (Laurence Mason) (so named for his photographic memory), and Joey Pardella (Jesse Bradford), an aspiring novice hacker without an alias.
At a party, Dade learns that Kate is "Acid Burn", the hacker that earlier kicked him out of the TV network.

Meanwhile, Joey, out to prove his skills, successfully breaks into "The Gibson", an Ellingson Mineral Company supercomputer.
He attempts to download a garbage file as proof of his feat, but his mother enters and disconnects his computer in anger, leaving Joey with a fragmented file.
However, prior to Joey's disconnection, the company's IT employee Hal (Penn Jillette) detects this unauthorized entry and summons computer security officer Eugene "The Plague" Belford (Fisher Stevens), a former hacker, to deal with the problem.

While going through the files, Plague realizes the garbage file being downloaded is in fact a virus he inserted to defraud Ellingson.
Review of the garbage file could reveal that The Plague is stealing from the company via salami slicing.
The Plague pretends the hackers are to blame and enlists the US Secret Service to recover the file, claiming it is the code to a second computer virus (named "Da Vinci" for an image of the Vitruvian Man that accompanies it) that Plague inserted as a red herring that will capsize the company's oil tanker fleet.

Soon after, Joey is arrested and his computer is confiscated and searched, but the Secret Service finds nothing in the software, as Joey has hidden the disk containing the files.
In response, Dade and Kate decide to settle their disagreements regarding the other's computing supremacy with a bet in the form of a hacking duel, with Dade choosing a date with Kate as his prize; Kate electing to have Dade perform menial computing tasks.
The hacking duel focuses on harassing Secret Service Agent Richard Gill (Wendell Pierce), "Hacker enemy number one", who was involved in Joey's arrest.
Phreak, Cereal, and Nikon act as judges.
After various pranks including canceling Gill's credit cards, creating a fake embarrassing personal ad in Gill's name, fabricating a criminal record, and changing his payroll status to "deceased", the duel remains tied for now on.

After being released on parole, Joey reveals the disk to Phreak in a public park; but they quickly realize that they are being followed by the Secret Service.
The next day, Phreak is arrested.
He uses his phone call to inform Kate that he hid the disk in a boy's bathroom at school.
That evening, Kate and Cereal Killer ask Dade for his help; but, stating he has "a record" before, declines.
Kate then asks Dade to copy the disk so that, if anyone else is arrested, they have the disk as un-tampered evidence.
After determining that Dade is not the one who hacked into Ellingson, The Plague attempts to enlist Dade's help to find the one who did.
First, he sends Dade a high-powered laptop, more powerful than his old computer, that upon start-up displays a video message from The Plague encouraging Dade to join forces with The Plague with him together.
Later, he threatens to have Dade's mother incarcerated with a manufactured criminal record, which would then send him on the street.
At this, Dade agrees to deliver Kate's copy of the disk.

Meanwhile, Kate, Lord Nikon, and Cereal Killer attempt to discern the contents of the disk.
Dade joins them; and, after working all night, they learn the purpose of its code—a worm designed to salami-slice $25 million from Ellingson transactions.
Dade confesses that he knows Plague is behind this scheme, because he was the one who wanted Kate's copy of the disk.
He admits he gave Plague the disk.
When they confront him about his "record", he reveals his hacking history as "Zero Cool".
Lord Nikon and Cereal display great reverence and excitement finding out that Dade is Zero Cool, since he became "a hacker legend" after his 1988 hacking.
Kate is nonplussed, as their futures are still at risk.
Determined to stop the scheme, the assembled hackers plan to hack the Gibson again.
Kate and Dade go dumpster-diving for employee memos with passwords; Cereal Killer downloads a phone tap in the Ellingson offices; and Nikon poses as a delivery boy wandering the Ellingson cubicles, memorizing employee passwords as they enter them in the secured codes.

Reading the memos, they discover that the Da Vinci virus is set to capsize the oil fleet the next day, which would provide the perfect cover to distract from the salami-slicing worm.
In need of help, Dade and Kate seek out Razor and Blade, the producers of a hacker-themed pirate TV show, "Hack the Planet."
Razor and Blade are at a club where Urban Dance Squad is performing and after Dade and Kate gain access to their space, they manage to convince Razor and Blade to join them in disrupting The Gibson enough that the garbage file can be located and copied.
Lord Nikon and Cereal Killer learn through their Ellingson phone tap that warrants for their arrest are to be executed at 9AM the next day, and have to hurry up before that time.

The next morning, after being paged by Kate, Nikon and Cereal roller-blade from Washington Square Park, evading the Secret Service with a bug that reconfigures traffic lights and converge on Grand Central station, where they use payphones and acoustic couplers to begin their assault on the Gibson.
At first, their attempts are easily rebuffed by Plague, who calls Dade to warn him to escape before he is arrested.
However, Razor and Blade have contacted hackers around the world, who lend their support with virus attacks, hampering the Gibson and distracting Plague long enough for Dade to download the incriminating file to a floppy disk.

Shortly after crashing the Gibson, Dade and company are arrested.
As they're being led away, Dade surreptitiously informs Cereal Killer, hiding in the crowd, that he's tossed the disk in a trashcan.
As Dade and Kate are being interrogated, Razor and Blade jam the local television signals and broadcast live video of Cereal Killer, revealing the plot and Plague's complicity, along with the account number with the stolen funds.
Plague is arrested while attempting to flee to Japan under the alias "Mr.
Babbage."
Their names cleared, Dade and Kate go on a date at a swimming pool on the roof of a building, their friends showing off their latest hack—the lights in several adjacent office buildings spelling out "CRASH AND BURN."