Luke Skywalker initiates a plan to rescue Han Solo from the crime lord Jabba the Hutt with the help of Princess Leia, Lando Calrissian, Chewbacca, C-3PO and R2-D2.
Leia infiltrates Jabba's palace on Tatooine disguised as a bounty hunter and releases Han from a block of carbonite, but she is captured and enslaved.
Luke arrives soon afterward and allows himself to be captured.
After Luke survives a battle with the Rancor, Jabba sentences Luke and Han to death by being eaten by the Sarlacc.
Luke breaks free and a fire fight erupts, during which Leia strangles Jabba to death, Han knocks Boba Fett into the gaping maw of the Sarlacc and Luke destroys Jabba's sail barge.
While Han and Leia meet with the other Rebels, Luke returns to Dagobah, only to find that Yoda is dying.
With his last breaths, Yoda confirms that Darth Vader, once known as Anakin Skywalker, is Luke's father; he also mentions "another Skywalker".
The spirit of Obi-Wan Kenobi confirms Luke's insight that the "other Skywalker" Yoda spoke of is Luke's twin sister, Leia.
Obi-Wan then tells Luke that he must fight Vader again to defeat the Empire.

The Rebel Alliance learns that the Empire has been constructing a new Death Star, and hatches a plan to destroy it.
Both Vader and his Sith master Emperor Palpatine, the Empire's ruler, are aboard to supervise its completion.
Han leads a strike team to destroy the battle station's shield generator on the forest moon of Endor, allowing a squadron of starfighters to enter the incomplete superstructure and destroy the station from within.
The strike team, with Luke in tow, travels to Endor in an Imperial shuttle; Vader senses Luke's presence on the shuttle, but lets them through so that they will be ambushed by the Imperial forces lying in wait on Endor.
Sensing Vader's presence, Luke fears he is endangering the mission.

On Endor, Luke and his companions encounter a tribe of Ewoks and after an initial conflict, form a partnership with them.
Later, Luke confesses to Leia that she is his sister, that Vader is their father and that he is leaving to confront him.
Luke surrenders to Imperial troops, so that they will bring him to Vader.
He unsuccessfully tries to convince Vader to turn from the dark side of the Force.
Vader takes Luke to the Death Star to meet the Emperor, intent on turning his son to the dark side.

With the Death Star fully operational, the Emperor says it is set to destroy the Rebellion.
On Endor, Han's strike team is captured by Imperial forces, but a surprise counterattack by the Ewoks allows the Rebels to launch an attack.
Meanwhile, Lando leads the Rebel fleet in the Millennium Falcon to attack the Death Star, only to find the station's shield is still up and the Imperial fleet is waiting for them.
The Emperor tempts Luke to give in to his anger and join the dark side, and Luke and Vader engage in a lightsaber duel.
Vader discovers that Leia is Luke's sister, and threatens to turn her to the dark side.
Luke, enraged at this possibility, attacks Vader, severing his father's right hand.
The Emperor entreats Luke to kill Vader and take his place, but Luke refuses, declaring himself a Jedi.
The Emperor attacks him with Force Lightning.
Unable to watch his son suffer, the suppressed 'good side' in Vader is rekindled and he kills the Emperor, thus fulfilling the prophecy that he would be the one to bring balance to the force.
In the process, however, Vader is mortally wounded by the Emperor's lightning.
With his dying breaths, the redeemed Vader asks Luke to remove his mask so he can look on his son with his own eyes instead of through the mask.
Now revealed as Anakin Skywalker he tells Luke to tell Leia that there was still good left in him after all.