God and Lucifer are engaged in a war for the souls of humanity; a standing wager for the souls of all mankind.
Angels and demons are forbidden to manifest on Earth, but they are allowed to possess and influence humans, and half-breeds are used to peddle influence.
Exorcist John Constantine was born with the power to see angels and demons.
At age 15, he committed suicide to escape his visions, but was revived after spending two minutes in Hell, and his soul is bound for hell when he dies for the sin of taking his own life.

Constantine exorcises a girl possessed by a soldier demon trying to break through her to Earth, something that should not be possible.
Constantine seeks an audience with the androgynous half-breed angel Gabriel.
He asks Gabriel for a reprieve from his impending death from lung cancer, but Gabriel declines, telling Constantine that his motives for exorcising demons are selfish and will not earn him entry into Heaven.
After he leaves, Constantine repels an attack by a full demon out in the open.
This encounter prompts him to meet with former witch doctor Papa Midnite.
While there Constantine also encounters half-breed demon Balthazar, who informs him that all of Hell is waiting for him to die and that he is the one soul Satan would come to Earth personally to collect.
Midnite refuses to become involved, wanting to retain the balance between Heaven and Hell.
Constantine begins investigating the situation with his associates Beeman, Hennessy, and Chas Kramer.
Detective Angela Dodson shows up at Constantine's apartment to ask for his help investigating her twin sister Isabel's death.
Isabel leapt to her death from the top of a mental hospital, and despite camera footage showing it Angela is convinced that Isabel would never commit suicide.
At first Constantine mocks her and denies her request for help, but after demons attack Angela on the street outside Constantine agrees to help.

Hennessy's and Beeman's research leads them to conclude that Lucifer's son, Mammon is plotting to break through to Earth and claim it as his own kingdom.
To do so, Mammon requires a powerful psychic and assistance from God.
Balthazar kills Hennessy and Beeman, and Angela reveals that she and her sister possessed the same gift as Constantine.
Angela rejected her visions and they eventually stopped, but Isabel embraced them and was institutionalized for it.
Constantine reawakens Angela's psychic ability through a near death experience, then hunts down and interrogates Balthazar who reveals that Mammon has obtained the Spear of Destiny, which is stained with the blood of Jesus Christ.
After Constantine and Angela leave, Balthazar is destroyed by an unseen force.
Angela, now possessing the psychic abilities Mammon requires, is abducted by an unseen force and brought to Isabel's hospital.
Constantine convinces Midnite that the balance is no longer in force, and asks to use "The Chair", an old electric chair.
The Chair shows Constantine a vision of how the spear was discovered in Mexico and has been brought to Los Angeles.
Constantine and Chas head to the hospital and interrupt the ritual, but Chas is beaten to death by an unseen force in the process.

Using incantations and sigils tattooed on his arms, Constantine forces the unseen force to be revealed as Gabriel.
Gabriel subdues Constantine and details the plan to release Mammon was theirs.
Gabriel laments God’s favoritism towards humans and believes that bringing Hell to Earth will enable those who survive to become truly worthy of God’s love through repentance and faith.
Gabriel then throws Constantine from the room.
As Gabriel moves to stab Angela with the Spear and release Mammon, Constantine slits his wrists and dies.
Time stops as Lucifer arrives to personally collect his soul.
Constantine tells Lucifer about Mammon’s plan to usurp him and Lucifer sends Mammon back to Hell.
When Gabriel attempts to smite Lucifer, the angel's power is nullified and their wings are burned off.
In return for his help, Lucifer grants Constantine a favor; instead of a longer life, he asks Lucifer to allow Isabel to go to Heaven.
Lucifer agrees, but then finds that he is unable to drag Constantine to Hell; Constantine's noble sacrifice sees him granted entry to Heaven.
Infuriated at losing Constantine's soul, Lucifer resurrects him and removes his cancer, claiming that Constantine will eventually prove he belongs in Hell.
Freed from Mammon's possession, Angela departs with Constantine, leaving behind the now human Gabriel.
Some time later, Constantine gifts the Spear to Angela, asking her to hide it.
As she leaves, instead of producing a cigarette, he starts to chew on some nicotine gum.

In a post-credits scene, Constantine visits Chas' grave.
Chas appears before him as an angel and flies upward to the sky.