     


                                     RKO 281
     

                                      Written by
                             
                                      John Logan
     
     
     May 1,1997     

     
     
     RKO 281 by John Logan 
     
     INT LARGE, DARK ROOM NIGHT
     
     In the ebony shadows of a large room we can make out corners and edges, 
     moldings and cornices; the phantoms of decaying Victorian wealth 
     floating like disembodied ghosts in the darkness.
     
     It is May 6, 1924 The harsh flare of a match being struck
     
     A shadowy male figure lights a series of nine candles on a birthday 
     cake. Beyond the cake we can see a bed.
     
     On the bed lies a woman in her early forties. She is ashen and sickly. 
     Dying.
     
     The shadowy male figure finishes lighting the candles, blows out the 
     match and disappears as the woman peers into the darkness.
     
                              WOMAN 
               Come into the light.. Come into the light
     
     A nine-year-old boy steps into the light.
     
     She pulls him close and whispers:
                              WOMAN 
     
     Never stand in the shadows --
     
                              BOY 
               Mother...
     
                              WOMAN 
               You are made for the light, Orson Now you must blow 
               out your candles. But you must always remember, the 
               cake itself is nothing. The flame, the lights, that 
               is where your future lies. You must have a dream. A 
               great dream worthy of you.
     
     The boy immediately spins to the cake and blows out the candles. A 
     moment of darkness. He turns back to the bed. The woman and the bed are 
     gone, faded into darkness.
     
     The solemn young lad stares and stares into the darkness
     
     And then, magically, the faint glimmer of twinkling stars fill his huge 
     dark eyes.
     
     NEWSREEL The flickering images of an old newsreel, circa 1940
     
     Under the MGM logo we see the title: BOY WONDER WOWS HOLLYWOOD!
     
     The first image after the title is the imposing figure of ORSON WELLES, 

     climbing down from an airplane and surveying the world at his feet.
     
     Welles is 24 years old and somewhat handsome. Welles seems rather 
     uncomfortable in his own body, as if it could not possibly contain his 
     vast passions and appetites.
     
     Orson Welles is man who tears his way through life with incendiary 
     energy. He is at once inspiring and ferocious; visionary and coldly 
     ambitious. He is part artist, part fraud and all showman.
     
     A sonorous voice accompanies the newsreel. The voice is always grand, 
     occasionally sardonic.
     
                              NEWSREEL VOICE 
               He came to the town of magic and dreams a flashing 
               star blazing through the firmament of illusion. And 
               he promised to devour the world in a single gulp. He 
               was 24 years old and his name was George Orson 
               Welles. Sound the trumpets! Unfurl the banners, 
               Hollywood! The Boy Wonder has arrived!
     
     Images of Welles as a baby and his early life fill the screen: Welles 
     in a crib; as a pampered schoolboy; at dance class; drama club; dressed 
     up for a magic show. As we hear:
     
                              NEWSREEL VOICE 
               He made his debut on the world stage in Kenosha, 
               Wisconsin, on the 6th of May, 1915. And on the 7th 
               of May he spoke his first words, and unlike other 
               children who say commonplace things like "momma" and 
               "poppa", he proclaimed "I am a genius!"
     
     At three the genius was reciting Shakespeare and at eight he had taken 
     up cigars and highballs and was learning magic from the  knee of the 
     great Houdini.
     
     Images of Welles' early theatrical career: the young man playing 
     impossibly old parts; vaudeville magic shows; various regional 
     theaters; endless tawdry rehearsal rooms
     
     Then images of Welles and JOHN HOUSEMAN in New York: the great, 
     bustling city; Welles at work with John Houseman on a script; Welles 
     directing a play. As we hear:
     
                              NEWSREEL VOICE 
               So how could the magic of the stage not call to 
               this adventurous lad? Unstoppable and resolute, the 
               Boy Wonder journeyed into the world of the legit 
               theater. After a peripatetic beginning he found 
               himself at last in New York where he joined forces 
               with theatrical producer John Houseman under the 
               august auspices of the WPA Federal Theater.
     
     A rehearsal room interview with John Houseman, who is in his 30's, 
     thin-lipped and prim:
     
                              HOUSEMAN 
               Orson barreled in and took over. Orson's a real 
               barreler.
     
     Images of Welles directing his famous "Fascist JULIUS CAESAR" and 
     "Voodoo MACBETH" productions: auditions; rehearsals; perfecting a 
     sword-fight; rejecting classical costume sketches for JULIUS CAESAR; 
     supervising set construction; performing Brutus in the Albert Speer-
     like Nuremberg rally lighting of JULIUS CAESAR. As we hear:
     
                              NEWSREEL VOICE 
               Like Hannibal over the Alps, the Boy Genius invaded 
               the Great White Way. He stunned the sedate elite of 
               New York theatre with production after production. 
               From MACBETH with an entirely colored cast to a 
               Mussolini-inspired JULIUS CAESAR!
     
     More images of New York, Welles, Houseman and radio: Welles directing a 
     radio play with sweeping energy; supervising the elaborate sound 
     effects; editing the script; at odds with Houseman. As we hear:
     
                              NEWSREEL VOICE 
               Though he wowed the critics with his spectaculars 
               the ticket sales left something to be desired. So, 
               after founding the Mercury Players with Houseman, 
               young Mr. Welles quickly set his sights on the 
               airwaves. He quickly became the sonorous -' voice of 
               "The Shadow." ''
     
     Newsreel footage of Welles at a standing radio microphone;
     
                              WELLES 
               Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men? The 
               Shadow knows. . .
     
     Welles laughs his sinister Shadow laugh and we go to more images of 
     radio and the dynamic Welles performing and directing as we hear:
     
                              NEWSREEL VOICE 
               With Lament Cranston in one pocket and his own 
               radio show. The Mercury Theater of the Air, our Boy 
               Wonder filled the night with his resounding tones. 
               And on October 30th of 1938, he became what he felt 
               destined to be: a household name.
     
     What started out as a roguish Halloween prank became the most famous 
     radio show in the history of the galaxy!
     
     Images of the WAR OF THE WORLDS broadcast and panic: listeners huddling 
     next to their radios; telephone switchboards lighting up; New Jersey 
     State Motorcycle Troopers zooming down rural roads; cars clogging the 
     highways. As we hear:
     
                              NEWSREEL VOICE 
               THE WAR OF THE WORLDS sent this nation spinning 
               into a frenzy. Nine million listeners clasped their 
               loved ones close and looked to the skies with 
               horror. Unlucky listeners near the epicenter of the 
               "invasion" -- rural New Jersey -- ran screaming into 
               the night, sure a monstrous alien and a fiery death 
               awaited them around every corner! The mischievous 
               Boy Wonder had fooled us all!
     
     Newsreel footage of a packed press conference with Welles the day 
     following the broadcast:
     
                              WELLES 
                  (contritely)
                Of course ... of course ... if I had known the 
               panic the broadcast was causing -- well I would have 
               stopped! I never meant for any of this to happen and 
               I feel just horrible!
     
     Quick newsreel clips of Welles leaving the press conference with 
     Houseman. We see them slip into a taxi. Inside the taxi we can just 
     glimpse Welles exploding with laughter.
     
                              NEWSREEL VOICE 
               How long, oh how long could it possibly be before 
               the sunny land of dreams tried to harness the 
               combustible power of this showman, this impresario, 
               this best of all possible Boy Wonders?!
     
     Images of Welles posing and shaking hands with GEORGE                          
SCHAEFER
     
     Schaefer is an intense, compact man in his early 50's. His nickname in 
     Hollywood is "The Tiger" -- both for his admired tenacity and his 
     feared temper. He is a moral and ethical man; John Adams in a Brooks 
     Brothers suit.
     
     As we hear
     
                              NEWSREEL VOICE 
               The winner in the Welles derby was George Schaefer, 
               the head of RKO Pictures. With a contract 
               unimaginable before The Days Of Orson, Mr. Schaefer 
               captured the whirlwind snared the beast, roped the 
               tyrant!
     
     Images of Welles and Schaefer: Welles signing his contract; smiling to 
     Schaefer; Schaefer making a speech; Welles joking with reporters. As we 
     hear:
     
                              NEWSREEL VOICE 
               Eyebrows raised and jaws dropped all over 
               Hollywoodland when the terms of the deal that lured 
               The Great Orson came forth: the Boy Wonder could 
               produce, write, direct and star in his own projects 
               with budgets up to $500,000 a picture! He would have 
               total control over the shooting of the picture and 
               the finished product. The studio, well, they just 
               paid the bills. Meanwhile, the insiders of filmland 
               were skeptical.
     
     An interview with a Hollywood Insider, who looks like a bookie:
     
                              HOLLYWOOD INSIDER 
               John Ford doesn't have a deal like that. Cecil B. 
               DeMille doesn't have a deal like that. No one has a 
               deal like that! If ya ask me, George Schaefer is 
               just plain nuts
     
     Images of Welles arriving in Hollywood and touring the town: Welles 
     climbing down from a plane; posing with Schaefer before of the RKO 
     gates; touring the studio; leaning over an editing machine; laughing 
     with female extras in the commissary; posing in front of his Brentwood 
     home. As we hear:
     
                              NEWSREEL VOICE 
               So Cometh Orson! He toured the RKO studio and met 
               with the biggest of the big! He charmed his way 
               through the town from the Brown Derby to the 
               Copacabana, from the Pacific Palisades to the 
               Hollywood Hills!
     
     More images of Welles in Hollywood: Welles touring the town; visiting 
     all the nightclubs and dancing with beautiful women; he is seen 
     everywhere about the town. As we hear:
     
                              NEWSREEL VOICE 
               Yes, the Boy Wonder had arrived! He even charmed 
               those rival maidens of Hollywood gossip, those well-
               coiffured chroniclers of the dream factory: Hedda 
               Hopper and Louella Parsons.
     
     Shots of Welles with LOUELLA PARSONS and HEDDA HOPPER
     
     Louella is a much-feared gossip columnist. She is a gorgon in her 60's; 
     Margaret Dumont possessed by the devil and tanked up on gin. Her 
     capricious cruelty is only matched by her fervent loyalty to all things 
     Hearstian.
     
     Hedda is a gossip columnist in her 50's. She is given to elaborate hats 
     and villainous intrigue. Louella's younger, smarter rival, Hedda 
     probably spends her spare time eating children.
     
     Then a snippet of an interview with Louella:
     
                              LOUELLA 
               Orson is the sweetest boy. We're both from the 
               midwest, you know. He's just a local fella making 
               good, ya follow?
     
     More shots of Welles just after his arrival in Hollywood, blissfully 
     touring the RKO facilities as:
     
                              NEWSREEL VOICE 
               So today, almost a year after his arrival in 
               Hollywood, we leave the Boy Wonder still hard at 
               work developing his much-anticipated first feature, 
               preparing to dazzle us all again. We're waiting, 
               Orson!
     
     Welles after his RKO tour, smiling mischievously, stands before a 
     microphone:
     
                              WELLES 
               I'll tell you what, this is the best electric train 
               set a boy ever had!
     
     "The End" and newsreel credits
     
     The newsreel sputters to a stop in a screening room. A shaft of light 
     shines on a large MGM logo on one wall. Another shaft of light 
     illuminates the sitting figure of LOUIS B. MAYER.
     
     Mayer is a short, crafty, bespectacled man in his 50's. His cloying, 
     avuncular exterior only fleetingly disguises the film titan's 
     outrageous barbarism.
     
     Another shadowy figure, a Mayer FLUNKIE, can be just glimpsed sitting 
     elsewhere in the screening room.
     
     Mayer glowers at the darkened screen for a moment.
     
     A beat.
     
                              MAYER 
               Who does that cocksucker think he is?
     
                              FLUNKIE 
               They're laying bets over on the RKO 
               lot that this great deal will end up 
               with him never doing a picture. Back 
               to New York he goes.
     
                              MAYER 
               Serves him right. I mean can you stomach the 
               arrogance?
     
                              FLUNKIE 
               Inside skinny says the glory boy's finished, 
               can't come up with a movie. Wants to do a biography now.
     
                              MAYER 
               After RKO boots him maybe we'll pick him up cheap. 
               Have him do that WAR OF THE WORLDS crap as a 
               feature.
     
     Meantime, shelve the newsreel. No one cares
     
     INT SAN SIMEON. WELLES' SUITE EVENING
     
     Orson Welles, elegant and impressive, is flourishing a cigarette and a 
     coin in his magnificently expressive hands He is perfecting a magic 
     trick.
     
     Welles is lounging on the bed of an enormous guest suite at San Simeon. 
     He is wearing a tuxedo.
     
     In the bathroom beyond him we can see the writer HERMAN MANKIEWICZ 
     ("MANK". )
     
     Mank is a wonderful wreck of a human being. 43 years old, but looking 
     considerably older, he is short and squat and bitter. A compulsive 
     gambler and drinker, Mank still glimmers with wry humor that is equally 
     wicked and corrosive. He is incomplete without the stub of a cigar 
     clenched in his teeth.
     
     Mank, also dressed in a tuxedo, is looking at himself in the bathroom 
     mirror as he struggles with his bow tie. He occasionally glances in the 
     mirror to Welles.
     
     Title: JANUARY 3, 1940
     
                              MANK 
               I don't know what you expected with Joseph- 
               fucking-Conrad for Chrissake. I mean this is 
               Hollywood, pal.
     
                              WELLES 
               All right! Enough! I've heard this from Schaefer 
               and RKO. I've heard it from everyone--
     
                              MANK 
               But you keep coming up with the same elitist crap -
               - HEART OF DARKNESS with a million dollar budget?! -
               - no one wants to see that.
     
                              WELLES
               Nonsense
     
     Welles dramatically taps the cigarette on the coin, practicing his 
     trick as:
     
                              MANK 
               What are movies about, Orson?
     
                              WELLES
               Forget it-
     
                              MANK 
               What are movies about?
     
                              WELLES 
               Telling stories.
     
                              MANK
               Nope.
     
                              WELLES 
               Showing life
     
                              MANK 
               Who the hell wants to see life?! People are sick to 
               death of life! They want make-believe, pal. Fantasy. 
               They want Tarzan and Jane, not Tristan and Isolde.
     
     Welles quickly makes the cigarette seem to completely pass through the 
     coin. An astounding bit of slight of hand.
     
                              WELLES 
                  (happily)
                Magic
     
                              MANK 
               Butts on seats. That's what movies are about. You 
               got one job in Hollywood -- everyone has the same 
               job, in fact -- putting the butts on the seats. You 
               gotta sell 'em popcorn and Pepsi- cola. It's all 
               about popcorn and Pepsi-cola.
     
                              WELLES
               Not for me.
     
                              MANK 
               Then you better get ready to be the youngest never-
               was in Hollywood history.
     
                              WELLES 
               That's better than being the oldest has-been in 
               Hollywood history.
     
                              MANK 
               You're a laugh-riot, kid.
     
     Welles laughs and goes to Mank in the bathroom.
     
                              WELLES 
               Here, turn around.
     
     Welles ties Mank's bow tie for him as:
     
                              WELLES 
               So, we've got to come up with our movie. Our 
               biography.
     
                              MANK
               Right-
     
                              WELLES 
               We find the man and then we dissect him-
     
                              MANK
               Like a bug.
     
                              WELLES 
               But with compassion and insight--
     
                              MANK 
                  (glancing at his watch)
                Christ, we gotta go! The old man doesn't cotton to 
               lateness.
     
     Mank takes a quick swig from a flask of vodka, shoves it into his coat 
     and scurries into the other room as Welles checks himself in the 
     mirror.
     
     A beat. Welles smiles, confident and resplendent
     
                              WELLES 
                  (into the mirror)
                How do you do, Mr. Hearst? My name is Orson 
               Welles.
     
     INT SAN SIMEON. HALLWAY FOLLOWING
     

     Welles and Mank walk through an impressive upstairs hallway of San 
     Simeon. Quick glimpses of the astounding grandeur everywhere around 
     them as:
     
                              WELLES 
               How about Howard Hughes? We could do Hughes
     
                              MANK 
               I'm not fucking with Hughes. That shit-kicker would 
               kill us dead, baby. Just like Jean Harlow
     
                              WELLES 
               Howard Hughes killed Jean Harlow?
     
                              MANK 
               Sure. Dropped her out of his Lockheed over Utah
     
     They disappear down a long stairway 
     
     INT SAN SIMEON. DINING HALL EVENING 
     
     An explosion of color and an immediate swirl of sound

     
     We are in the Grand Refectory -- the mammoth dining room -- at San 
     Simeon. Five long tables are placed end to end. There are about fifty 
     sumptuously dressed guests.
     
     WILLIAM RANDOLPH HEARST and MARION DAVIES preside, side by side, 
at the 
     center table.
     
     Hearst is 76 years old. He is a fully commanding figure, towering in 
     both height (six foot two) and personality. He is shaped rather like a 
     pear and moves with a delicacy surprising for such a famously merciless 
     man. Although the word ruthless does not begin to do justice to the 
     press baron's animus, Hearst is endlessly polite and almost painfully 
     soft-spoken.
     
     Marion is 43 years old, a shimmering and lively presence. In a word 
     that might have been coined for her, she has moxie. While the ravages 
     of alcoholism have left their subtle marks on the edges and attitudes 
     of her face, she can still charm and captivate with almost effortless 
     grace.
     
     Around Hearst's feet sit a collection of his beloved dachshunds.
     
     On the other side of the main table, and down a bit, sit Welles and 
     Mank.
     
     We sweep around the table, hearing bits of overlapping dialogue and 
     finally settle on Marion and Hearst.
     
     Marion is charming CAROLE LOMBARD and CLARK GABLE, who sit beside 
her. 
     She tenderly rests one hand on Hearst's arm as she speaks. Marion 
     speaks with an occasionally pronounced stutter.
     
                              MARION 
               And we would hear them scuttling around at night 
               with their little red eyes and little yellow t-t-
               teeth and I'm just imagining plague lice jumpin' all 
               over the damn place So we set t-t-traps everywhere. 
               And every morning we would find the t-t-traps sprung 
               but no mice!
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD
               Houdini mice.
     
     Laughter
     
                              MARION 
               Just wait. So one night I notice Pops getting outta 
               bed and sneaking away. And he's got this little p-p-
               paper bag with him, right? Middle of the night. So I 
               figure the old man's really up to no good this time 
               and I follow him. Well I'll be g-g-goddamned if he's 
               not springing all the traps and leaving cheese for 
               the rats!
     
                              MARION 
               You and that freak Disney, in love with the damn 
               rats!
     
     Laughter, even from Hearst
     
                              HEARST 
               They really are sweet little things
     
     Meanwhile, across the table Welles is rapaciously devouring his dinner 
     as:
     
                              WELLES 
               Sigmund Freud?
     
                              MANK 
               Kid, you just got your ass kicked on Joseph Conrad 
               and now you're gonna go to Schaefer and tell him you 
               wanna do the id and the superego? Stop being so 
               goddamn smart.
     
     Mank surreptitiously pours a huge shot of vodka from his flask into his 
     glass as:
     
                              WELLES 
                  (suddenly inspired)
                Manolete?!
     
                              MANK 
               Who the hell's Manolete?
     
                              WELLES 
               The great Spanish bullfighter
     
                              MANK 
               I don't wanna write about no spic.
     
                              WELLES 
               No, it's perfect! When in doubt, put on a cape! 
               False noses and faux beards and flowing capes have 
               been the life-blood of the actor's craft since the 
               days of lrving and Booth. (He flourishes his napkin 
               like a bullfighter's cape.) Imagine me in a 
               glittering suit of lights on the dusky Andalusian 
               plains--
     
                              MARION 
               Why Mr. Welles is attempting semaphore
     
     Welles smiles across the table.
     
     Laughter.
     
                              WELLES 
               Bullfighting, Miss Davies!
     
                              MARION 
               And is dear Mank your b-b-bull?
     
                              WELLES 
               My factotum, ally and comrade-in-arms
     
                              MANK 
               Writer, flunkie, pimp--
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD
                  (wry)
                You fight many bulls there in New York, Orson?
     
                              WELLES 
               Ever met Walter Winchell?
     
                              WELLES 
                  (expansively, warming into a story)
                No, when I was but a tender lad--
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               Last week would this be?
     
     Laughter. As Welles speaks the whole table gradually stops eating and 
     listens to his tale:
     
                              WELLES 
               My father and I made a tour of the grand boulevards 
               of antique Europe. And when we were in Iberia I had 
               the chance to face the bulls. At the knee of the 
               great Manolete I took up the cape and sword - 
                  (he uses his napkin and knife to 
                  demonstrate)
                -- across from me stood a mammoth bull reputed to 
               have gored a full seven men to a grisly demise! So -
               - with Manolete shouting encouragement I flourished 
               . . . I flourished again . . . and the bull charged! 
               Across the golden dust it came, thundering like the 
               great minotaur of legend, closer, ever closer, its 
               calamitous hooves pounding into the dirt, shaking 
               the earth as I held the crimson eye of the bull with 
               my own, defying it -- it was almost upon me and I 
               flourished one last time! -- the monster swept past! 
               - 
                  (he spins his napkin in the air and his 
                  knife is now gone, a magic trick)
                -- and my sword was gone -- buried in the bloody 
               eye of the beast!
     
     Applause and laughter from around the table. Then:
     
                              HEARST 
                  (quietly)
                You are evidently a man who knows a great deal 
               about bull.
     
     Some nervous titters. A beat as Welles' smile fades and he stares at 
     Hearst.
     
                              HEARST 
               Of all man's malignity -- of all his sadism -- none 
               is more depraved than cruelty to animals.
     
     Silence
     
     Mank gives Welles a desperate warning look to keep quiet Welles cannot 
     resist speaking:
     
                              WELLES 
               In Spain the cruelty would be in denying the beast 
               a fighting end.
     
     A beat as Hearst rivets Welles with a cold, bland stare Deafening 
     silence around the table.
     
     Then:
     
                              HEARST 
               Who are you, sir?
     
                              WELLES 
               My name is Orson Welles
     
                              HEARST 
               The actor
     
                              WELLES 
               And director.
     
                              HEARST 
               I see. And you are in California for what reason?
     
                              WELLES 
               To make pictures.

     
                              HEARST 
               And what pictures have you made?
     
     A beat.
     
                              WELLES
               None.
     
     A beat. Hearst smiles
     
                              HEARST 
               Well, I wish you luck. It is a treacherous 
               business.
     
                              WELLES 
               So I've been told.
     
                              HEARST 
               In Hollywood the fiercest bulls are the most 
               brutally killed.
     
                              WELLES 
               I'll remember that.
     
     A tense beat. Marion quickly diffuses the situation;
     
                              MARION 
               Enough Hollywood talk! Can't anyone talk about 
               anything else?
     
                              MANX 
               Heard some juicy gossip from Metro.
     
                              MARION
                  (eagerly)
               Ooh, dish.
     
     Laughter. Even from Hearst. Then the dinner chatter continues.
     
     Welles cannot keep his eyes off Hearst, the press baron draws Welles in 
     like a siren.
     
     Marion gives Hearst a little kiss and grabs Carole Lombard and they 
     leave the table. Hearst leans into Clark Gable to continue talking.
     
     Welles sits back and reaches for a cigar. Mank takes his arm and 
     indicates he should stop, nodding his head in Hearst's direction.
     
                              WELLES 
                  (quietly)
                The man doesn't allow drinking or cigars? This is 
               monstrous.
     
                              MANK 
               The old man has his own way of doing things
     
                              WELLES 
               He's nothing but a hypocrite. He preaches morality 
               every day in his sordid little papers for everyone 
               else in the world but he lives openly with his 
               mistress.
     
     Mank sneaks another shot from his flask
     
                              MANK 
               Buddy, when you own the largest publishing empire 
               in the universe you can do whatever the hell you 
               want. Think about it, pal. Every day one out of five 
               Americans picks up a Hearst publication. 30 
               newspapers, a dozen magazines, a bunch of radio 
               stations and the grand dragon of them all. Little 
               Miss Louella Parsons. Tends to give you some of that 
               ol' noblesse oblige.
     
     Welles studies Hearst across the table.
     
                              WELLES 
               Look at those hands. Those are the hands of an 
               artist. A modern Caravaggio.
     
                              MANK 
               No, baby, those are the hands of a killer
     
     Hearst leans down and feeds his favorite pet dachshund, Helen, table 
     scraps. He talks to her gently.
     
                              HEARST 
               There you are, honey. Aren't you a wonderful girl?
     
     INT SAN SIMEON. LADIES LOUNGE FOLLOWING
     
     Marion and Carole Lombard escape into an ornate ladies bathroom.
     
     Marion immediately goes to a cabinet and retrieves a bottle of Scotch 
     hidden under some towels. She takes a swig and then hands the bottle to 
     Carole Lombard. She drinks.
     
     Marion lights a cigarette.
     
                              MARION 
               God, these parties are the worst
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               You need to get outta here, Rapunzel
     
                              MARION 
               That's why he has the parties, he says it's like 
               bringing the world to me.
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               Why don't you come down to LA? Stay with us for a 
               while.
     
                              MARION 
               With about twenty of his spies on my tail. No 
               thanks.
     
     Marion hands the cigarette to Carole Lombard A beat.
     
     A beat.
     
                              MARION 
                  (somewhat ruefully)
                It's not so bad here. After all, what girl doesn't 
               want to live in a castle?
     
                              MARION 
               Mr. Welles certainly is a caution
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
                  (smiles)
                Yeah, Orson's a real piece of work. But deep down, 
               he's a good kid. Real deep down.
     
                              MARION 
               And attractive in a hammy sort of way.
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               Mm.
     
     A beat. Carole Lombard hands the cigarette back to Marion
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               Listen, you come down and stay with us for a few 
               days. Just tell the old man that--
     
                              MARION
               I can't
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               Sure you can, just--
     
                              MARION 
               He needs me here.
     
     A beat. Carole Lombard does not respond. 
     
     INT SAN SIMEON. BALLROOM FOLLOWING
     
     In the cavernous ballroom, a dance band is playing "I'LL BE SEEING 
     YOU."
     
     The guests mingle and dance
     
     Welles and Mank wander as Welles takes in the impressive surroundings.
     
                              WELLES 
               "In Xanadu did Kubla Khan a stately pleasure dome 
               decree. . . "How big is it, all told? The estate?
     
                              MANK 
               The whole joint is half the size of Rhode Island.
     
                              WELLES
               Jesus
     
                              MANK 
               Yeah, it's the place God would have built, if he'd 
               had the money.
     
     Carole Lombard and Marion return, rather giggly
     
                              MARION 
               Mankie, Mankie d-d-dance with me
     
                              MANK 
               You've been naughty, haven't you, honey?
     
                              MARION 
               Shit, can you smell it? You got any sen-sen?
     
                              MANK
               Sorry.
     
                              MARION 
               Mr. Welles, you got any--? Oh fuck it.
     
     She goes off in search of Hearst.
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               Meanwhile, Orson, I thought your bullfighting story 
               was nifty. Let's cut a rug.
     
     She pulls Welles to the dance floor Mank wanders away and takes another 
     swig from his flask.
     
     As Welles and Carole Lombard dance, Welles keeps an eye on Hearst and 
     Marion who are dancing nearby.
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               So you ever gonna do a picture?
     
                              WELLES 
               Not you too
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD
                  (smiles)
                It's gonna be fine, Orson. You're gonna do great.
     
                              WELLES 
               I wonder sometimes.
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               You're just scared.
     
                              WELLES 
               Am I? 
     
                              CAROLS LOMBARD
               Sure
     
                              WELLES 
               And what am I scared of?
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               Of being found out. Of not being a genius
     
                              WELLES 
                  (smiles)
                Oh, but haven't you heard? I'm the Boy Wonder. 
               I've been a genius since the moment I was born.
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               We've known each other too long, Orson. Sling the 
               bullshit elsewhere.
     
                              WELLES 
               Carole, you wound me! As if I could hope to pacify 
               you with evasions of--
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               Don't insult me with your cute press quotes Save it 
               for Louella.
     
     She stops and looks at him firmly
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               You make your mark, Orson.
     
     Nearby Marion pulls away from Hearst sharply, drawing Welles' 
     attention. He overhears:
     
                              MARION 
               Goddamn it. I gotta have some kinda life!
     
                              HEARST 
               There's no call for that language-
     
                              MARION 
               There certainly is I There certainly is! Aw, to 
               hell with you!
     
     She storms off. Welles and Carole Lombard watch her go
     
                              WELLES 
               That poor woman.
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
                  (sadly)
                She knew what she was signing on for After all, 
               she took the money.
     
     Welles watches as Hearst stands alone on the dance floor We hear the 
     sound of a lion roaring in the distance 
     
     INT SAN SIMEON. WELLES' SUITE NIGHT 
     
     Welles, again dressed in a tuxedo, lies on his bed
     
     Through the open balcony doors he can hear the eerie sound of lions 
     roaring and elephants trumpeting in the night.
     
     He stand and wanders to the balcony. Below him he can see bits and 
     pieces of Hearst's private zoo in the moonlight: a lion pacing 
     relentlessly back and forth; an alligator slipping into the water; a 
     monkey slamming into the bars of its cage.
     
     The disquieting sounds of the menagerie float through the midnight air.
     
     Welles leaves his suite 
     
     INT SAN SIMEON. HALLWAYS FOLLOWING
     
     Welles roams the seemingly endless hallways of San Simeon. In the half-
     light they begin to resemble his own cinematic dream-palace, Xanadu.
     
     He hears the ghostly echo of a song, "WHERE OR WHEN".
     
     He curiously follows the sound, taking in the fabulous castle 
     everywhere around him.
     
     He passes by the door to the Assembly Room. Inside, shafts of light 
     illuminate portions of huge, uncompleted jigsaw puzzles.
     
     INT SAN SIMEON. BALLROOM FOLLOWING 
     
     "WHERE OR WHEN" is now clear.
     
     Welles stands in the shadows of a balcony overlooking the great 
     ballroom.
     
     Below him a phonograph record spins lazily on a turntable standing of 
     the floor of the deserted ballroom.
     
     And Hearst and Marion are enjoying a quiet dance together, her head 
     nestled on his shoulder.
     
     Welles stares and stares at them And slowly smiles. We linger on Hearst 
     and Marion as they dance 
     
     EXT WELLES' HOUSE. POOL DAY
     
     Welles, wrapped in a bathrobe, is pacing quickly around the perimeter 
     of his backyard pool. He is puffing on a cigar and grunting to himself 
     as he scribbles down notes.
     
     Mank, wearing sunglasses and a battered fedora and looking decidedly 
     hung-over, comes from the house to the pool.
     
     Welles roars up to him:
     
                              WELLES 
               Mank! You scoundrel! What took you so long?!
     
                              MANK 
                  (pained)
                Orson, please ... it's too bright
     
     Welles takes Mank's fedora and flings it away.
     
                              WELLES 
               Here you are, up with the birds for once, you 
               vampire!
     
                              MANK 
                  (settling into a deck chair)
                Okay, boy wonder, what?
     
                              WELLES 
               Listen ... I've got it! It came to me like a thief 
               in the night! Pure inspiration! Total magnificence!
     
     Mank takes a glass from a tray of orange juice and pours vodka from a 
     flask into his juice as:
     
                              MANK 
               Oh for Christ's sake-
     
                              WELLES 
               I know who we're going to get I The great American 
               biography! A journey into the soul of the beast.
     
                              MANK 
               This better be good
     
                              WELLES 
               Image a man that has shaped his time. A titanic 
               figure of limitless influence. Think about empire. A 
               man with an empire at his feet. A man, like a baron, 
               living in a palace, a glorious palace on a hill, and 
               controlling the permutations of everyone beneath 
               him. Feudal.
     
                              MANK 
                  (realizing)
                Oh Christ...
     
                              WELLES 
               Image the possibilities as this man controls the 
               public perception of the nation through his--
     
                              MANK 
               Oh Christ
     
     A beat as Welles stands in triumph before Mank.
     
                              WELLES 
               Yes.
     
                              MANK 
                  (quietly)
                Please don't say this.
     
                              WELLES
               Mank-
     
                              MANK 
               Don't whisper it. Don't even think it
     
                              WELLES 
               How long have we spent casting our minds about the 
               world when the answer to our prayers was right here 
               under our noses -- every single day in the 
               newspapers and on the radio -- waiting for us in 
               that ridiculous castle! Waiting for--!
     
                              MANK 
               Orson. Stop. Just stop
     
     Welles quickly sits in a deck chair next to Mank as:
     
     Beat
     
                              WELLES 
               Now remember he's a public figure who sought out 
               that publicity so legally he can't stop us from--
     
                              MANK 
                  (laughs coldly) Listen to you. You 
                  child! Men like him don't bother with 
                  things like legality. They don't have to. 
                  You know why, boy-o?   Power.   Power 
                  like you couldn't even begin to imagine.
     
                              MANK 
               Howard Hughes, he would just kill us. Hearst he 
               would kill us and fuck everything we ever loved.
     
                              WELLES 
               We're doing Hearst.
     
     A beat. Mank slowly removes his sunglasses and leans forward, dead 
     serious.
     
     A beat.
     
                              MANK 
               You may think you know what you're talking about, 
               kid, but believe me, you don't. You're talking about 
               going into a battle you can never win on a 
               battlefield so far above things like movies and 
               Hollywood that Hearst won't even have to glance down 
               when he crushes you. When he flicks you away with 
               one finger. I'm talking about money and influence 
               and evil beyond your capacity to imagine Hell.
     
                              WELLES 
               So speaks the court jester.
     
                              MANK
               Fuck you
     
                              WELLES 
               I expected more from you.
     
                              MANK 
               Sorry to disappoint.
     
                              WELLES 
                  (with building venom)
               How does it feel, Mank? Going up to the palace and 
               making all the lords and ladies laugh as you tell 
               your little stories and beg for crumbs at the table? 
               How does it feel being the ugly little monkey they 
               keep to amuse themselves--?!
     
     Mank leaps to his feet
     
                              MANK 
               It feels just fine, you pompous fuck-
     
     Welles blocks Mank's way. Mank retreats. Welles pursues him around the 
     pool as:
     
                              WELLES 
               I remember a man who wrote I He was a brilliant 
               writer who dazzled me time and time again with his 
               wit and insight--
     
                              MANK 
               Don't do this
     
                              WELLES 
               Where did he go? He hasn't had a screen credit in 
               four years--
     
                              MANK 
               Don't do this
     
                              WELLES 
                  (savagely)
               --Because he has been so furiously busy wasting 
               himself. Amusing his keepers. Because he is a 
               sycophant! Because he has been thrown out of every 
               studio in Hollywood and no one will hire him because 
               he's a drunk- -!
     
     Mank spins on him:
     
                              MANK 
               AND YOU'RE NOTHING BUT A GODDAMN PHONY! What is all 
               this "Orson Welles" bullshit?! This boy genius 
               crap?! What the fuck did you ever CREATE? You're 
               just another goddamn ACTOR!
     
     Welles shoves Mank violently. Mank goes sailing into the pool.
     
     Mank splashes to the surface and stands for a shocked moment and then 
     wades to the edge of the pool. Miraculously, and like the true drinker 
     he is, Mank is still holding his glass of juice and vodka, now 
     supplemented with pool water.
     
     Welles stands above him, blocking his exit from the pool. From this low 
     angle Welles suddenly looks startlingly Kane- like.
     
     A pause
     
                              MANK 
               Let me out.
     
                              WELLES 
               Listen to me-
     
                              MANK 
               Fuck you--
     
                              WELLES 
     I am giving you the last chance you will ever have to be yourself 
     again!
     
                              MANK 
                  (suddenly)
               I don't have it anymore?!
     
                              MANK 
               When I was a kid I wanted to scorch the world too -
               - I had all kinda dreams about making great pictures 
               and telling great stories. But all that's finished 
               for me--
     
                              WELLES 
               It doesn't have to be
     
                              MANK 
               And yeah, sure, Hearst's a great subject. Been 
               keeping notes on him for years for my ... 
                  (he laughs bitterly)
               great American novel. But I can't do it anymore. No 
               studio's gonna hire me and I - -
     
                              WELLES 
               I'll hire you  -- right now-
     
                              MANK
                I can't do it. okay?! I drink too much -- I drink 
               all the fucking time and I don't have it anymore. 
               All that is over for me--
     
                              WELLES 
                  (roars)
               NOT UNLESS I. TELL YOU IT IS
     
     A tense pause
     
     Welles kneels by the edge of the pool, effortlessly switching gears.
     
                              WELLES 
                  (deeply)
               Look, Mank, this is our only chance
     
     I know this is the story. And now is the time. And I cannot do it 
     without you. Everything in my life -- all the promise and potential and 
     dreams -- have led to this moment right now. To you and me. Right here.
     
     A pause. Welles gazes at Mank, imploring
     
                              MANK 
               He'll destroy us.
     
                              WELLES 
               Then let him. What have we got to lose, you and I?
     
     A long beat Welles leans close to him.
     
                              WELLES 
               Take my hand, Mank. And we'll dance one last time. 
               We'll dance to the music of the angels. We'll make 
               history. We'll scorch the earth. We will ... 
               astonish them all.
     
     Silence as Welles offers his hand to Mank.
     
     Mank takes a sip from his glass of juice, vodka and pool water.
     
                              MANK 
               Thank God you don't write dialogue
     
     INT WELLES' LIVING ROOM DAY
     
     Mank is slowly sharpening a series of pencils with a pocket knife, 
     blank pads waiting. Welles is standing across the room from him.
     
                              WELLES 
               So, who is he? We have to know him.
     
                              MANK 
               Everyone sees someone different. That's what we 
               show.
     
                              WELLES
               How?
     
                              MANK 
               Like a jewel. Turn it in the light and a different 
               facet is illuminated.
     
     Mank finishes sharpening his last pencil and picks up a pad He smiles 
     to Welles
     
                              MANK 
               Go
     
     And we leap into MONTAGE -- WELLES AND MANK BRAINSTORM
     
     A rush of jazzy. Gene Krupa percussion as Welles and Mank develop their 
     story.
     
     We see images of feverish creativity. Welles raging, pleading, arguing, 
     pushing. Mank responding, laughing, drinking, writing.
     
     It is a passionate dance of creation Welles' tennis court Mank and 
     Welles are on the tennis court, but hard at work.
     
     Mank waits for Welles to serve. Welles bounces the tennis ball, but is 
     too preoccupied to serve as:
     
                              WELLES 
               The key -- the key -- the clue -- what does this 
               man recall on his death bed? Okay, Mank, you're 
               dying. What's the last image that comes to you? 
               Right now.
     
                              MANK 
               This girl on a dock. White dress. Never said a word 
               to her.
     
                              WELLES
               Why her?
     
                              MANK 
               She was . . . innocent
     
     A beat, Welles deep in thought. Mank watches Welles closely.
     
                              MANK 
               So when was our man innocent? Was there a moment 
               early on -- of innocence and bliss? There must have 
               been. Okay, you're dying - what do you think?
     
     Welles does not answer. He continues to bounce the tennis ball, deep in 
     thought.
     
     A beat
     
                              MANK 
                  (probing)
               Something you lost maybe?
     
                              MANK 
               Something you can never get back?
     
     Mank watches as Welles lets the tennis ball drop. It bounces and rolls 
     -- for a fleeting moment in Welles' mind  it seems to become the rolling 
     snow globe from KANE -- we hear the sound of sleigh bells and a child's 
     happy voice -- in the snow globe we seem to see a boy laughing and 
     pelting his father with snowballs. . .
     
     Then more images, mad and outlandish and sedate and solemn; in the 
     kitchen, in a car, around the pool, in a bar.
     
     Welles and Mank act out scenes and argue. They leap from character to 
     character fearlessly. Emoting and laughing and writing. We see the twin 
     joy and terror of walking the tightrope, of sheer creation.
     
     We see them having a ferocious argument. They scream back and forth 
     angrily and then Mank storms out and slams the door. Welles stands 
     alone in his living room, he catches a glimpse of his own reflection in 
     a mirror and we hear:
     
                              MANK'S VOICE 
               Men like Hearst don't love..
     
     Welles' living room: Welles is slowly advancing on Mank.
     
     Mank sits, watching Welles approach. The living room is now filthy. 
     Papers and sketches and gin bottles are discarded everywhere around 
     them, a thick cloud of cigar smoke. It is very late at night and the 
     room is in semi-darkness.
     
                              WELLES 
               All men love. But men like Hearst -- they don't 
               bother with convention because--
     
                              MANK 
               They don't have to.
     
                              WELLES 
               He loves in his own way. On his conditions. Because 
               those are the only conditions he has ever known.
     
     Welles is now standing over Mank, a dark figure in silhouette. Mank 
     soaks in this somewhat ominous image.
     
     More music and images: eating and working; swimming and working; 
     playing and working simultaneously.
     
     Then: Beach:
     
     Sunset. We see them walking along a deserted beach Welles is walking in 
     the surf, his trousers rolled.
     
                              WELLES 
                  (quietly)
               Hearst looks down at the world at his feet 
               Everything has always been beneath him.
     
                              MANK 
               And what does he see?
     
                              WELLES 
               The people. When they pay him homage, he adores 
               them. But when they have the ... audacity to 
               question him. To doubt him. To embarrass him. Then 
               he despises them.
     
                              MANK 
               And when he looks up? What does he dream about?
     
     31
     
     Welles stops and looks up. A thousand stars twinkle above him. They are 
     reflected in his eyes.
     
     A long pause as he does not answer Mank Then
     
                              MANK 
               I'm ready to write it, Orson
     
     Welles turns to him. You're sure?
     
     Yeah. Mank gazes at Welles.
     
                              WELLES
     
                              MANK
     
     I know him The clatter of an old typewriter is heard. EXT/INT + 
     BUNGALOW. VICTORVILLE DAY
     
     Victorville is a rural desert community in San Bernadino County about 
     90 miles from LA.
     
     Mank and John Houseman are ensconced in a bungalow at Campbell's Guest 
     Ranch, writing the movie.
     
     Mank, smoking a cigar, paces around the cacti and shrubs in the 
     backyard reciting to their secretary. She pounds away on a typewriter 
     as he orates. A huge stack of papers lies neatly by her typewriter. 
     This is clearly the longest screenplay in the history of the world.
     
                              MANK 
               Leiand: "You talk about the people as if you owned 
               them. As though they belonged to you. But you don't 
               really care about anything except you."  Craig: "A 
               toast then, Jedediah, to all those people who didn't 
               vote for me today and to love on my own terms. Those 
               are the only terms anybody ever knows. . . "
     
     We float into the house as we continue to hear Mank's recitation...
     
     Inside, John Houseman is busy rifling through Mank's room as he 
     listens:
     
                              MANK'S VOICE (CONT.)
                "...because in the end a man looks into the mirror 
               and sees one face looking back not humanity -- not 
               "the people" -- one face. And he's got to be able to 
               look at that one face and know he was true. "
     
     Houseman uncovers a bottle of vodka hidden under Mank's bed He pours 
     the bottle down a bathroom drain as he calls out the window:
     

                              JOHN HOUSEMAN 
               That's too long. Tighten it up
     
     Outside, Mank snarls and then revises:
     
                              MANK 
               You're killin' me here, Housey. Okay, make that, 
               Craig: "A toast, Jedediah, to love on my own terms. 
               Those are the only terms anybody ever knows, his 
               own."
     
     Houseman emerges from the house.
     
                              JOHN HOUSEMAN 
               Telegram from The Christ Child
     
     He tears open the telegram and reads:
     
     Beat.
     
                              JOHN HOUSEMAN 
               "Schaefer loves the idea. Stop. Start writing. 
               Stop. Stop drinking. Stop. Did you work in the 
               jigsaw puzzles. Question mark. Don't stop. Stop. 
               Love you madly, Orson."
     
                              MANK 
               That man makes my brain hurt
     
     We fade to a beautiful drawing of a dark, cavernous room. Perhaps it is 
     a perfect matte painting from KANE. Real or illusion? The image turns 
     into...
     
     INT  SOUND STAGE, RKO LOT  DAY
     
     Welles is standing in the middle of an enormous sound stage, empty but 
     for a table with some elaborate set models. He is;' slowly walking 
     around the models, studying them, imagining' his movie.
     
     The sound stage door opens and a man enters, carrying a small black 
     bag. He is cinematographer GREGG TOLAND.
     
     Toland is a quiet, efficient and slim man of 36. He is brilliant and 
     fearless.
     
     Toland walks to Welles and, without a word, pulls an Oscar statue out 
     of the bag and sets it down in the middle of one of the set models. He 
     looks up at Welles as we hear:
     
                              WELLES' VOICE 
               And Gregg Toland plunks down his Oscar for 
               WUTHERING HEIGHTS and says, "Mr. Welles, I want to 
               shoot your picture. . . "
     
     INT THE BROWN DERBY DAY\NIGHT
     
     The chic Brown Derby restaurant is the unquestioned palace of Hollywood 
     celebrities. The smug big-wigs and desperate hangers-on circulate and 
     score points in the Great Game of Movie Gossip.
     
     In one corner booth sits Hedda Hopper, phoning in the latest salacious 
     gossip to her newspaper. In the other corner booth Louella Parsons does 
     the same. They occasionally glance back and forth at each other like 
     ravenous hyenas eyeing the last bit of carrion.
     
     Welles circulates between them. In a scene reminiscent of the famous 
     CITIZEN KANE breakfast table scene with Kane and Emily, we shoot back 
     and forth as Welles applies his considerable charm to both women.
     
     Welles is dressed differently with each of them; breakfast with Hedda 
     and dinner with Louella.
     
     With Hedda, morning:
     
                              WELLES (CONT.)
                ... And I said, "Mr. Toland, you are the finest 
               cinematographer in Hollywood, why would you desire 
               to work with a stumbling neophyte?"
     
     With Louella, night
     
                              WELLES 
               And he replied, "Mr. Welles, the only way to learn 
               anything new is to work with someone who doesn't 
               know a damn thing."
     
     Louella screeches
     
                              LOUELLA 
                  (scribbling on a pad)
               Priceless!
     
     With Hedda, morning:
     
                              WELLES 
               Hedda, this movie is going to look like no other 
               picture ever made.
     
     With Louella, night:
     
                              WELLES 
               Tome it's a question of truth and illusion. Don't 
               you get tired of the errant falsity in motion 
               pictures?
     
                              LOUELLA
               Huh?
     
                              WELLES 
               What we are going to do is shoot life -- in all 
               it's joyous complexity.
     
     He takes out a coin and begins a magic trick
     
                              WELLES 
               Consider this quarter, my dear. You can touch it 
               and feel it and were you to lean forward you could 
               even smell it. Why is it that in the movies a simple 
               bit of reality -- a quarter, a room, a man--
     
     With Hedda, morning:
     
                              WELLES 
               Becomes nothing but a lie? A trick. An illusion.
     
     He makes the quarter 'completely disappear. Hedda is charmed
     
                              WELLES 
               I will show the reality behind the trick.
     
     He makes the quarter appear again and shows the guts of the trick.
     
                              WELLES 
               I will use the illusions of Hollywood to show . . . 
               the truth.
     
                              HEDDA 
               What does truth have to do with movies?
     
     With Louella, night
     
                              LOUELLA 
                  (confused)
               So, what, it went into your other hand?
     
     With Hedda, morning:
     
                              WELLES 
               And so the dreamer awakens into the realms of 
               reality. He has been given a rendition of the truth. 
               He has been treated with respect.
     
                              HEDDA 
               Orson, that's all terribly interesting but what's 
               all this about you and Dolores Del Rio? Do I hear 
               love birds a'singin'?
     
     Welles sighs. With Louella, night:
     
                              LOUELLA 
               Now, Orson, you know I'm just dyin' to see your 
               picture and I know it's gonna be boffo, but you're 
               writing about a publisher, right?
     
                              WELLES
               We're using-
     
                              LOUELLA 
               You're not doin' Hearst, are you?
     
                              WELLES 
               Good God no! The character is a delicious 
               amalgamation of various press barons--
     
                              LOUELLA 
               A delicious amalgamation, is it?
     
     He leans forward to light her cigarette as:
     
                              WELLES 
               That's right. A symphony of those: vaunted and 
               valued tellers-of-truth. Those heroic minutemen 
               standing sentry on our liberties--
     
     EXT.
     
                              LOUELLA 
               Orson, hold on. Look into my eyes. Tell me you are 
               not doing Hearst.
     
                              WELLES 
               I am not doing Hearst.
     
     INT BUNGALOW. VICTORVILLE DAY
     
     Mank and Houseman watch nervously as Welles reads the last page of 
     their massive screenplay.
     
     The script, almost half a foot high, is piled on a table next to 
     Welles.
     
     He sets down the last page and looks at Mank. A beat
     
                              WELLES 
               It's 350 pages long.
     
                              MANK 
               Yeah, but the margins are real wide.
     
                              WELLES 
               It is 350 pages of ... ABSOLUTE INSPIRATION!
     
     He leaps up and embraces Mank
     
                              WELLES 
               Housey, get us a drink.
     
     Houseman glances at Welles, surprised, but dutifully scampers inside.
     
                              WELLES 
               I told you you could do this! How could you have 
               ever doubted me!? You must never doubt me again!
     
     Mank laughs
     
                              MANK 
               It's good, huh?
     
                              WELLES 
               Good?! Good?! Words fail you at last! It's 
               terrific! Now I'll have to do some shaping, of 
               course, and some of the scenes aren't exactly . . . 
               exactly . . .
     
                              MANK
               What?
     
                              WELLES 
               Short enough. But this is a grand start And I think 
               we need to change the name.
     
                              MANK
               The title?
     
                              WELLES 
               No, AMERICAN is a blessed title directly sent from 
               God's soul to your mind. We shall never change that! 
               I mean the name of the publisher. Charles Foster 
               Craig doesn't have the knives-out poetry I need. I 
               was thinking about "Kane" -- you like that?
     
                              MANK 
               Cain -- like the Bible guy?
     
                              WELLES 
               K-A-N-E. One strong syllable. Kane I
     
                              MANK 
                  (weakly)Craig is one syllable
     
                              WELLES 
               But it's not a great syllable
     
     Houseman returns with a tray of drinks. Welles hands glasses all around 
     as:
     
                              MANK 
               I --um-- I don't know if I should. I ain't been 
               drinking since I started on this--
     
                              WELLES 
                  ( toasting)
               To my invaluable comrade Drink up!
     
     Mank is stunned Welles smiles and drinks.
     
     INT CAR. DESERT ROADS DAY
     
     Welles sits in the back of his limo as his chauffeur speeds him back to 
     Los Angeles.
     
     He goes through the script with a fervent intensity. He crosses out 
     huge sections and tosses away entire pages. The' floor around his feet 
     is littered with discarded pages.
     
     Mank sits drinking heavily as the sun sets in the distance Houseman is 
     busy packing in the house behind him.
     
     Houseman notices Mank and goes to him They stare at the crimson of the 
     setting sun for a moment
     
                              MANK 
               I'm out, aren't I?
     
                              HOUSEMAN 
               Welcome to the world of Orson Welles.
     
     We focus on Mank's glowering face. But the background is somehow 
     different. We are at...
     
     INT MANK'S CAR NIGHT
     
     Late at night. Mank is sitting in his car, drinking from his flask and 
     listening to period jazz music from the car radio. He is parked outside 
     Welles' house, waiting and seething and very drunk.
     
     He sees Welles pulling into his driveway and climbing out of his car. 
     Mank takes a final swig and then bolts after him, carrying a script. . 
     .
     
     EXT WELLES ' HOUSE FOLLOWING 
     
     Mank roars unsteadily up to Welles:
     
                              MANK 
               YOU FUCK! YOU SELFISH FUCK!
     
     Mank flings the script in Welles' face. Welles recoils
     
                              WELLES 
               Jesus Christ --
     
                              MANK 
               YOU CAN'T DO THIS TOME -- THIS WAS OUR STORY, 
               REMEMBER? -- YOU AND ME AND GODDAMN EVERYONE ELSE - 
               - REMEMBER THAT?!
     
     Mank snatches up the script and thrusts it in Welles' face
     
                              MANK 
               Pal from the studio sent this -- you see that?! 
               What does it say?! WHAT DOES IT SAY ORSON?!
     
     Welles bats the script away:
     
                              WELLES 
               Get away from me--
     
     Mank pushes the title page of the script toward Welles as
     
                              MANX 
               It says AMERICAN by Orson Welles. YOU TOOK MY NAME 
               OFF THE FUCKING SCRIPT!
     
                              WELLES 
               It's obviously a mistake, Manki Some steno girl 
               made a mistake, alright?!
     
                              MANK 
               You can't do this to me--!
     
     Welles spins on him:
     
                              WELLES 
                  (savagely)
               I fucking well can! I own your script and I can do 
               anything I goddamn want. And don't forget for one 
               minute that I took your 350 pages of drunken 
               rambling and I made a movie out of them -- and now 
               I've got to shoot the bastard. So thank you very 
               much, I have all I need. And you can stop calling 
               me.
     
     He goes into his house and slams the door.
     
     Mank leans against the door in stunned exhaustion. Then he slides down 
     the door and sits leaning against it.
     
                              MANK 
                  (quietly)
               I hope you choke on it. I hope it kills you.
     
     Inside the darkened House, Welles is leaning against the front door. 
     Silent.
     
     INT ,, SAM SIMEON. ASSEMBLY RQOM NIGHT
     
     The Assembly room is Hearst's private sanctum high in a tower at San 
     Simeon.
     
     Marion is valiantly trying to piece together a huge jigsaw puzzle.
     
     Hearst enters and goes to her. He puts his hand gently on her shoulder.
     
                              MARION 
               This is supposed ta be Siam or some such. Some 
               kinda lousy B-B-Balinese temple. This look like a 
               temple to you? I can't see it myself--
     
                              HEARST 
                  (quietly)
               Darling, I talked to Millicent.
     
     Marion stops working at the puzzle. She does not look up. Beat
     
                              HEARST 
               She said no
     
     A pause. Then:
     
     Marion slowly reaches out for the puzzle and delicately place a piece 
     in the proper position.
     
                              MARION 
               There. That's right.
     
                              HEARST 
               She's a Catholic. She says it would put her soul in 
               peril. Divorce is a very serious sin, apparently.
     
                              MARION 
                  (not looking up)
               Nuts. She only cares about the money. She thinks 
               I'll make you cut her out of the w-w-w-w... 
                  (she clenches her fists)
               will.
     
     A long, difficult pause
     
                              HEARST 
               I'm so sorry.
     
     Marion slowly stands and walks to a liquor cabinet and pours a stiff 
     drink.
     
     Hearst watches sadly, but doesn't say a word 
     
     INT SCHAEFER'S OFFICE. RKO LOT DAY
     
     Welles paces before Schaefer's massive desk with typical combustible 
     energy. Behind the desk, huge picture windows show the bustling 
     activities of the RKO lot.
     
                              WELLES 
               It's an awful title, of course, but I can't think 
               of anything better. Someone came up with A SEA OF 
               UPTURNED FACES -- which has a nice, grand ring to it 
               -- and I thought of JOHN CITIZEN, USA but that 
               strikes me as a bit Warner Brothers. Or, God forbid, 
               Capraesque. I suppose AMERICAN will do for now but--
     
                              SCHAEFER
               CITIZEN KANE
     
                              WELLES
               Pardon?
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               CITIZEN KANE There's your title.
     
     Welles muses
     
                              WELLES 
               A "Z" and a "K" in the title. That would draw the 
               eye. For the poster. I like that THE PRISONER OF 
               ZENDA had a "Z" and a "P" and that worked--
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Now look, Orson, let's not get ahead of ourselves. 
               The budget projections on this--
     
                              WELLES 
                  (theatrically)
               I know, I know! But what more can you expect of 
               me?! I have pared this story down to the marrow to 
               save money but to cut more would be to--!
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Listen, get off your horse with me. You know I've 
               stuck by you since the beginning of time it seems 
               like, while the stockholders in New York were ready 
               to cut and run and everyone else in Hollywood was 
               set to toss me in a rubber room. But your contract 
               stipulates a max budget of 500 thousand. This one's 
               gonna come in at 750 thousand. What do we do about 
               that?
     
     A beat
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Now don't have a fit -- but I want you to think 
               again about doing WAR OF THE WORLDS-
     
                              WELLES
               Jesus
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Do WAR OF THE WORLDS as a feature and everyone's 
               happy. You make some money and New York's happy and 
               you have a track record and then we'll move on to 
               KANE.
     
                              WELLES 
               Please don't ask me to do this.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               It's the safe bet, Orson. There's nothing wrong 
               with that.
     
     A long pause as Welles leans against a wall, his head down He does not 
     look at Schaefer as:
     
                              WELLES 
                  (simply)
               George, I want you to let me make this movie 
               because I need to make it. And I don't really know 

               why. Afterwards there' II be all the time in the 
               world to make money and sell popcorn. And I'll do 
               that for you. For RKO and New York. But for now ... 
               please let me tell this story.
     
     A beat. Welles finally looks up at Schaefer
     
                              WELLES 
               It's your decision, George. If you look into my 
               eyes right now and say, go make WAR OF THE WORLDS, I 
               will. I'll make it. And, yes, it'll make you money.
     
     And I honestly can't think of a reason in the world why you should let 
     me do KANE other than that you should.
     
     A long pause as Schaefer studies Welles. Then
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               If it'll get you the hell out of my office, go 
               ahead and make the picture.
     
     Welles drops his head, too moved to speak.
     
     Then he nods to Schaefer and begins to leave.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Say thank you, Orson.
     
     Welles glances at him. 
     
                              SCHAEFER
               For the title
     
                              WELLES 
                  (smiles)
               Ah, it's a grand title.
     
     He sweeps out. Schaefer smiles and shakes his head.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Like it would kill him to say thank you
     
     EXT SOUND STAGE. RKO LOT DAWN
     
     The sun is just rising on the RKO lot. We note a sign on the wall by 
     the sound stage door:
     
     CITIZEN KANE. RKO PRODUCTION #281. DIRECTOR: ORSON WELLES 
ABSOLUTELY NO 
     ADMITTANCE.
     
     INT RKO SOUND STAGE FOLLOWING 
     
     Absolute silence.
     
     Welles stands in the mammoth sound stage and looks around, it is as if 
     he has entered a great cathedral. A few lights illuminate portions of 
     the stage and giant lighting rigs and scaffolding soar to the unseen 
     ceiling miles away.
     
     The Xanadu Great Hall set awaits.
     
     Welles slowly walks to the set and stands, surveying his domain, 
     savoring the moment.
     
     Title: JULY 30, 1940
     
     He clears his throat and speaks, rehearsing his first day speech to the 
     cast and crew. His voice echoes.
     
                              WELLES 
               Today we - -
     
     He stops, surprised by the echo.
     
                              WELLES 
               Today we are going to break every rule in motion 
               picture history...
     
     No . . We are going to shatter every rule in
     
     Today we are going to shatter the hallowed busts of Griffith and 
     DeMille and Ford. We are going to show the world a new way of seeing. 
     Together we will blaze a trail...
     
     As Welles continues to rehearse we slowly ascend the scaffolding and 
     lighting rigs...
     
                              WELLES' VOICE 
               Together we will throw away all the maps and we 
               will become -joyously lost in the wilderness. And 
               the future cartographers of Hollywood will forever 
               chart our course. Following our lead...
     
     We continue to ascend and finally discover two electricians on the 
     upper catwalk, staring down in amusement, much like the two stagehands 
     at the opera in KANE.
     
                              WELLES' VOICE 
               And do you know why we're going to do this?
     
     Again to Welles on the stage floor: A beat. Welles slowly smiles.
     
                              WELLES 
               We're going to do this because it's going to be 
               fun.
     
     Above, one of the electrician's throws the switch on a huge spotlight.
     
     Welles is captured in the vibrant white light and Benny Goodman's 
     immortal "SING, SING, SING" immediately explodes and we are into:
     
     THE MAKING OF CITIZEN KANE
     
     A camera crane sweeps dramatically to the ceiling of the sound stage 
     and brilliant white lights flash on.
     
     A film clapper snaps: CITIZEN KANE. RKO PRODUCTION 281 DIRECTOR: 
ORSON 
     WELLES.
     
     And we see Welles racing heroically into making his first movie:
     
     In varying KANE makeups he tears through scenes and actors: laughing 
     with AGNES MOOREHEAD on the cabin set; charming RUTH WARRICK on 
the 

     breakfast table set; berating DOROTHY COMMINGORE on the Great Hall 
     set...
     
     He speeds back and forth and back and forth from the set to the camera 
     in the Campaign Headquarters set, never happy with the shot. . .
     
     Gregg Toland watches, bemused, as Welles shifts tiny prop pieces on the 
     set. . .
     
     Welles bullies and screams and pleads and seduces. Like an obsessed 
     artistic tornado he is seemingly everywhere at once. We see him 
     rejecting matte paintings and in makeup and rewriting the script and 
     trying on costumes and selecting props and leaping into odd positions 
     looking for the perfect camera angle.
     
     It is very important in this sequence that we see the pressure building 
     ... building ... building ... on Welles.
     
     "SING, SING, SING" continues On the Xanadu stairway set Welles behind 
     the camera, filming actor Paul Stewart
     
                              PAUL STEWART 
               "Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud.
     
                              WELLES
               Again.
     
     A film clapper: take 58
     
                              PAUL STEWART 
               "Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud.
     
                              WELLES
               Again. 
     
     A film clapper: take 59
     
                              PAUL STEWART 
               "Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud.
     
                              WELLES 
               Again
     
     "SING. SING, SING" continues...
     
     in a corner of the sound stage:
     
     Welles, in full Kane makeup, studies a miniature model of the Kane 
     Campaign Headquarters set through a tiny periscope with cinematographer 
     Gregg Toland.
     
                              WELLES 
               It needs a ceiling, Gregg. Real rooms have real 
               ceilings.
     
                              GREGG TOLAND 
               You want a ceiling on this one too?
     
                              WELLES
               You bet.
     
                              GREGG TOLAND 
               Gonna be tough
     
                              WELLES 
                  (smiles)
               No, it's gonna be impossible. That's why we're 
               doing it.
     
     SING, SING, SING" continues Back on the Xanadu stairway set: Poor Paul 
     Stewart, now at his wit's ends, continues:
     
                              PAUL STEWART 
               "Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud."
     
                              WELLES 
               Again
     
     The film clapper: take 112.
     
                              PAUL STEWART 
               "Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud
     
                              WELLES 
               Again
     
     Paul Stewart screams and collapses. "SING, SING, SING" continues... On 
     the Atlantic City nightclub set:
     
     Welles watches as the camera crane attempts the dizzying and difficult 
     maneuver from the skylight at the top of the set
     
     down to Dorothy Commingore as Susan Alexander below. The camera crane 
     goes out of control and crashes through some light fixtures and swings 
     crazily down toward Dorothy Commingore. She yelps and leaps away as the 
     camera barrels through the table and smashes to the floor.
     
     Welles stands next to Toland. A beat.
     
                              WELLES 
               Well, that didn't really work
     
     "SING, SING, SING" continues. Back on the, Xanadu stairway set
     
     Paul Stewart, dazed and shattered, is listening intently. Welles stands 
     with his arms around Stewart, embracing him, whispering into his ear.
     
                              WELLES 
               It is the most important line of the picture. You 
               will weave the magic of "Rosebud" in a single word -
               - you will say the word in such a way as to impart 
               to us the mystery of it. It is a divine and sinister 
               mystery worthy only of your talent. In this one word 
               the movie soars or falls. Once more, I beg you.
     
     Stewart nods. The film clapper: take 178.
     
     The cameraman leans into the viewfinder. We see his black- and-white 
     view of the shot through the lens then:
     
     In a cramped editing room we see Welles watching the scene on an old 
     editing moviola.
     
     On the moviola we see Paul Stewart taking a deep breath and then, 
     magnificently:
     
                              PAUL STEWART 
                  (On moviola)
               "Rosebud? I'll tell you about Rosebud."
     
                              WELLES' VOICE 
                  (On moviola)
               Print. ;'
     
     On the moviola we see Stewart laugh hysterically and dance away.
     
     In the editing room, Welles shakes his head
     
                              WELLES 
               Actors.
     
     "SING, SING, SING" continues. On the Campaign Headquarters set:
     
     Welles and Toland lie on the floor of the Campaign Headquarters set and 
     gaze up through viewfinders. They squirm about on the floor and laugh 
     to one another about their newest outlandish idea.
     
     Then Toland notices something in the catwalks high above the set. A 
     redheaded ELECTRICIAN.
     
                              TOLAND Orson, you see that electrician up there? The redhead. 
He was 
     on GRAPES OF WRATH. He's a free- lance studio spy. Probably reports 
     right back to the RKO boys in New York.
     
     Welles slowly stands and THUNDERS:
     
                              WELLES 
               STOP EVERYBODY STOP!
     
     All the flurried activity on the sound stage immediately stops.
     
     Every eye turns, terrified, to Welles. Welles glares up at the 
     redheaded electrician
     
                              WELLES 
               YOU COME DOWN HERE!
     
     The electrician slowly climbs down from the rafters. Welles rivets him 
     every step of the way.
     
     The electrician stops before Welles.
     
                              ELECTRICIAN 
               Mr. Welles...?
     
     A tense beat and then Welles fiercely and purposefully spits in the 
     electrician's face.
     
     The electrician recoils, stunned.
     
                              WELLES 
               GET OUT
     
     Welles returns to Toland as the electrician slinks off "SING, SING, 
     SING" continues as:
     
     We see the magnificent film emerging. Welles watching scenes in a 
     screening room, his feet up, exhausted, almost asleep, a cigar dangling 
     from his lips...
     
     We see rushes of Welles going through scenes with Dorothy Commingore as 
     Susan Alexander. He is relentless with her off camera, driving her to 
     the harridan outbursts he wants just before he steps into the shot...
     
     We see the crew observing, with great amusement, Welles' stumbling 
     attempts to learn the "Charlie Kane" dance...
     
     We see Toland shifting lights to achieve deep-focus cross-fades. Welles 
     rages as the difficult process eats up time...
     
     We see Welles growing increasingly manic. The long hours and the 
     pressure are clearly taking a toll..
     
     We return to the screening room. Welles is now fully asleep. His cigar 
     falls from his mouth and begins smoldering on his suit.
     
     "SING, SING, SING" fades at... On a Xanadu set:
     
     Filming a scene. Welles, in old-Kane makeup, is sitting with Dorothy 
     Commingore as Susan Alexander. He is curiously distracted. She is 
     pouring tea in the scene:
     
                              DOROTHY COMMINGORE 
               "Charlie, you sure got the funniest ways of looking 
               at things . "
     
     Welles does not respond. He breaks character
     
                              WELLES 
               No -- no -- I'll pour the tea. Sorry. I should pour 
               the tea. Let's try that again.
     
     Toland stands behind the camera and watches Welles. There is obviously 
     something wrong.
     
                              WELLES 
               Okay, here we go... Set. Action
     
     Welles pops into character and pours the tea in the scene as:
     
                              DOROTHY COMMINGORE 
               "Charlie, you sure got the funniest ways of looking 
               at things . "
     
     Welles stops, breaks character again:
     
                              WELLES 
               No -- that's not right
     
     He clears his throat and glances at the enormous crew, all staring back 
     at him expectantly.
     
                              WELLES 
               Urn. . . ah . . . yes -- you should definitely pour 
               the tea. Okay, again. Sorry.... Set. Action.
     
     They start the scene again. She pours the tea
     
                              DOROTHY COMMINGORE 
               "Charlie, you sure got the funniest ways of looking 
               at things . "
     
     A pause as she waits for his reply in the scene He sits, frozen.
     
                              TOLAND 
               Orson, you wanna take five?
     
                              WELLES 
               Five...? Yes. No. We're done today
     
     He slowly walks off the set as he nervously pulls at his tie, tearing 
     it off.
     
     Toland watches him go. 
     
     INT BROWN DERBY DAY
     
     Louella is at her usual corner booth, on the phone to one of her many 
     spies. She is devouring a Cobb salad as she hears:'
     
                              PHONE VOICE 
               I don't know if this means anything but I just 
               talked to a guy in the RKO art department They've 
               got all these books and crap all over the place. 
               Pictures of San Simeon.
     
     Louella instantly stops eating
     
                              PHONE VOICE 
               For the Welles picture.
     
                              LOUELLA 
               Pictures of the castle?
     
                              PHONE VOICE
               Yeah
     
                              LOUELLA 
               Thanks, doll. Get me more.
     
     She hangs up, intrigued.
     
     INT WELLES' HOUSE 
     
     Welles is standing, absolutely lost, in the middle of his living room. 
     He is still in his old-Kane makeup which is just beginning to peel off 
     his face.
     
     We hear a low, insistent drum beat, a Gene Krupa riff.
     
     We hear the sound of an ice pick chipping into a block of ice. Welles 
     glances around. We are no longer in Welles' living room but at. . .
     
     INT MANK'S HOUSE. SANTA MONICA DAY
     
     A turntable spins in a corner, playing a Gene Krupa record. Ashtrays 
     overflow with cigar butts and messy piles of pages are littered around 

     a typewriter.
     
     Mank's beach house is tiny and on the edge of squalid
     
     Welles, still in his peeling old-Kane makeup, is standing in the middle 
     of the living room and Mank is in the small kitchenette, chipping ice 
     for drinks.
     
     A long pause
     
                              WELLES 
               And I'm looking at them -- and they're all looking 
               at me and I don't know who should pour the tea. '
     
                              MANK
               Uh huh.
     
                              WELLES 
               I just can't . . see it anymore
     
     Mank returns to the living room and thrusts a drink in Welles hand.
     
                              WELLES 
               I want you back
     
                              MANK 
               Fuck you. (He sits.) You wanted me out. I'm out.
     
                              WELLES
               I'm sorry.
     
                              MANK
               I don't care.
     
     Welles hands Mank a folded script from his jacket. Mank looks at it as:
     
                              WELLES 
               This is the shooting script we've been using every 
               day.
     
     Sure enough, the title page of the script reads: CITIZEN KANE by Herman 
     J. Mankiewicz and Orson Welles.
     
                              WELLES 
               It's just like we always said it would be
     
     Mank hands it back
     
                              MANK 
               Too late, kid.
     
     Welles sits.
     
                              WELLES 
               Did I ever tell you about my father?
     
                              MANK 
               I don't give a shit about-
     
                              WELLES 
               He was a drunk. And he was my father and I was 
               ashamed of him.
     
     A beat. Welles proceeds quietly and with difficulty.
     
                              WELLES 
               He showed me the world, he took me with him 
               everywhere -- Europe, China -- and he was so proud 
               of me. But he would drink and he would get 
               ...embarrassing. And I began to resent him Because I 
               was so ... sparkling, you see.
     
     So I cut him dead. I turned my back and I walked away because I didn't 
     need him. He was getting in the way of my "genius." And he would write 
     me letters, and I never answered them, and he would call me, and I 
     never took his calls, and he showed up at school and I wouldn't see 
     him.
     
     Tears are beginning to inch down Welles' face
     
                              WELLES 
               When I finally saw him again, he was in a coffin. I 
               was fifteen. And all of a sudden he wasn't that 
               embarrassing drunk anymore ... he was the man who 
               showed me the world.
     
     Welles looks up at Mank, tears now streaming down his face.
     
                              WELLES 
               Just like you, Mank.
     
     A long beat. Mank, despite himself, is moved.

     
     To cover his emotion Mank rises and goes into the kitchen to freshen 
     his drink. We remain tight on Welles as we hear Mank's voice:
     
                              MANK'S VOICE 
               So you've lost it? Don't know who should pour the 
               tea.
     
                              WELLES
               Yeah
     
     A beat
     
                              MANK'S VOICE 
               Orson ... just cut the goddamn tea
     
                              WELLES
               Okay
     
     A beat. Welles reaches for a cigar, tears still wet on his face.
     
                              MANK'S VOICE 
               I been thinking about the beach scene. You done 
               that yet?
     
                              WELLES
     
     No
     
                              MANK'S VOICE 
               Good -- cause I was thinking that we're starting 
               the scene too late...
     
     Welles quickly bites off the end of his cigar -- his expression one of 
     "Gotcha!" -- even as. his cheeks are still wet with tears.
     
                              MANK'S VOICE (CONT.) 
               Cause if we don't show Susan watching Kane more 
               then we're not building the right tension into the 
               scene. See, she's gotta know that...
     
     Welles slowly smiles as the record of Gene Krupa's percussion segues 
     into the unmistakable rhythms of "SING, SING, SING" and eclipses Mank's 
     voice...
     
     And we see Welles everywhere, more energized than ever: perilous on a 
     high crane; stuck in a cramped corner behind the camera; doing magic 
     tricks for the cast; sleeping as makeup is applied to his face...
     
     Mank is always at Welles' side: supporting; challenging; amusing; 
     inspiring. . .
     
     We see Welles strutting, raging, boasting, dancing. And again towering.
     
     "SING, SING, SING" finally ends at..
     
     Through the black-and-white viewfinder we see Welles, in full costume 
     and makeup, carefully walking across the massive Kane Campaign 
     Headquarters set toward us. We see the low angle black-and-white 
     camera's perspective.
     
                              TOLAND'S VOICE 
               Closer ... closer ... closer -- stop. We just lost 
               your head.
     
                              WELLES 
               Can you see my shoes?
     
                              TOLAND'S VOICE 
               Yeah, but we lose your head.
     
                              WELLES 
               Goddamn it Joe -- stand here
     
     JOSEPH COTTON, also in full costume and makeup, steps into the shot and 
     takes Welles' position as Welles scurries out of the frame. . ..
     
     INT SOUND STAGE. RKO NIGHT. FOLLOWING
     
     Welles marches across the set and squirms into position at the camera, 
     which is right on the floor, and peers up through the viewfinder.
     
     Toland lies next to him. Mank stands to one side and- watches.
     
                              WELLES 
               It's just not low enough. This is the scene. We 
               have to look up at these two man as pillars soaring 
               to the sky. As towering virtues in combat--
     
                              TOLAND 
               Spare me the aria, I know what you want--
     
                              WELLES 
               I need my shoes in total focus right here and also 
               Joe back there--!
     
                              TOLAND 
               I know what you want but it can't be done!
     
                              WELLES 
               Take apart the fucking camera rig -- we could get a 
               few more inches down and then tilt up--
     
                              TOLAND 
               Orson -- we can't get the fucking camera any 
               fucking lower so find another fucking shot!
     
     Welles thinks for a moment and then bolts up. Toland watches, 
     mystified, as Welles races to a sound stage fire station and grabs a 
     fire axe. Welles storms back to the set and raises the axe high. Toland 
     quickly rolls away. And Welles slams the axe into the wooden floor of 
     the set. He continues to hack at the floor.
     
                              WELLES 
               Come on, Gregg! We'll tear out this floor!
     
     Welles and Toland and various grips hack at the floor
     
     Mank watches, bemused, and checks his watch
     
     Welles and Toland finally tear away the remnants of the wooden floor. 
     They stare down, defeated. Under the wood is solid concrete.
     
     Welles and Toland stand and stare at the concrete
     
                              TOLAND 
               It's midnight, why don't we pick it up tomorrow?
     
     Welles does not answer. He continues to eye the concrete Then:
     
                              WELLES 
               Get me a jackhammer.
     
     We see a grip pounding away at the concrete with a jackhammer as 
     Welles, always in motion, sweeps past Mank and Joseph Cotton.
     
                              MANK 
                  (wryly, to Cotton)
               There but for the grace of God, goes God.
     
     Welles slams to a halt in front of the unit physician and thrusts out 
     an arm. The physician injects him with a dose of B-12.
     
     Welles can barely wait for the injection before he speeds off.
     
     Welles supervises as Toland lowers the camera into the freshly dug hole 
     in the middle of the sound stage. Mank checks his watch, 3:30 AM.
     
     Welles leaps into the trench to check the camera setup.
     
     Again we see the view through the black-and-white viewfinder. Joseph 
     Cotton stands at a distance, at the far wall of the set.
     
                              WELLES' VOICE 
               Okay, Joe . . . come closer . . . closer
     
     We see Cotton approaching. He finally stops inches away from the 
     camera. His shoes and the far wall of the set are both in total focus. 
     It is a breathtaking, vertiginous shot.
     
     Then we see Welles and Joseph Cotton rehearsing and rehearsing and 
     filming and filming the scene. Endlessly
     
     Finally we seem to be seeing the scene from the movie
     
                              WELLES 
               "Well, if you got drunk to talk to me about Miss 
               Alexander, don't bother. I'm not interested. I've 
               set back the sacred cause of reform, is that it? All 
               right, if that's the way they want it, the people 
               have made their choice. It's obvious the people 
               prefer Jim Gettys to me."
     
                              JOSEPH COTTON 
               "You talk about the people as if you owned them. As 
               though they belonged to you. As long as I can 
               remember, you've talked about--" (he breaks 
               character)
               Orson, I am so goddamn tired--
     
     We continue to watch the scene through the viewfinder:
     
                              WELLES 
                  (to the camera operator)
               Keep filming.
     
                              JOSEPH COTTON 
               I can't remember the lines!
     
                              WELLES 
               Then make them up! You're drunk and you're angry.
     
     He shoves Joseph Cotton brutally
     
                              WELLES 
               This is the chance you've been waiting for, boy. 
               Tell that son of a bitch just what you think of him!
     
                              JOSEPH COTTON 
               We're not all hopped up on benzedrine, Orson I Some 
               of us humans need sleep!
     
     Welles shoves him again.
     
                              WELLES 
               You're not going to get another chance, boy! Look 
               right at the monster and you tell him--
     
                              JOSEPH COTTON 
                  (deeply)
               "You don't care about anything except you. You just 
               want to persuade people that you
     
                              JOSEPH COTTON (CONT.) 
               love them so much that they ought to love you back. 
               Only you want love on your own terms. "
     
                              WELLES 
               "A toast then, Jedediah, to love on my own terms. 
               Those are the only terms anybody ever knows, his 
               own."
     
     Welles/Kane drinks. A long pause.
     
                              WELLES
               Cut. Print
     
     We jump out of the black-and-white viewfinder and into the scene as 
     Welles turns to an assistant.
     
                              WELLES 
               How 'bout a real drink?
     
                              TOLAND
               We done?
     
                              WELLES
               Yeah. 
     
     The crew members exhale and practically collapse
     
     Welles stands and looks around in satisfaction. He takes in the empty 
     corners of the sound stage, the sets, the cameras Savoring the moment.
     
                              WELLES 
                  (quietly)
               It's finished.
     
     He walks to the massive doors of the sound stage and pulls them open.
     
     Sunlight floods in.
     
     Outside it is a blazing morning and the dazzling sunlight silhouettes 
     Welles.
     
     Welles squints and steps into the glorious sunlight. Mank and Toland 
     follow. They stand and watch as RKO extras and crews bustle about on 
     their way to work. The assistant brings a tray of martinis.
     
     They each take a glass. The RKO workers stare at them oddly as they 
     pass.
     
     Welles toasts them.
     
                              WELLES 
               Good morning, good morning. . .
     
     He grabs a passing extra and dances with her as Mank and Toland laugh.
     
     EXT HEDDA'S MANSION. PATIO MORNING
     
     Hedda Hopper reclines on her patio. An extremely ugly pug dog sits in 

     her lap. She has green goo all over her face and a cigarette dangling 
     from her lips.
     
     Title: THREE MONTHS LATER. JANUARY 3, 1941
     
     She is going through the trades. She stops at a particular item. She 
     studies it and then reaches for the phone and dials.
     
                              HEDDA 
                  (on phone)
               Orson, Hedda here! You naughty boy! You told me 
               that I would be positively the first human soul to 
               see your masterpiece and here I read in the Reporter 
               that there's a screening tonight for the magazines 
               ... yes, advance deadlines, I understand . . . (she 
               smiles) . . . oh, rough cut, uh-huh ... Been there, 
               Orson, know the drill. See ya tonight!
     
     She hangs up. Her hideous dog leaps on her and starts licking her face 
     goo.
     
                              HEDDA 
               Get offa me, ya little prick
     
     INT OUTSIDE AN RKO SCREENING ROOM NIGHT

     
     Welles paces nervously outside the doors to the screening room. 
     Schaefer stands leaning against a wall.
     
     From inside we can hear some of the final dialogue from CITIZEN KANE.
     
                              WELLES 
               This is an abomination There's no music and--
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               They've all seen a rough cut
     
                              WELLES 
               The magazines are one thing -- but Hedda! Why did 
               we have to let her come?!
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               When Hedda says "I'm coming" you mix a lot of 
               martinis and you pray.
     
     Silence from inside the screening room. The movie is over. An agonizing 
     silent pause
     
     Then the doors swing open and the guests stream out. Totally neutral 
     expressions.
     
     The bejeweled Valkyrie, Hedda herself, finally emerges. She stops 
     before Welles.
     
     A beat.
     
     She reaches up and pinches his cheek, a bit too hard. And then she 
     slaps his cheek, a bit too hard.
     
     And then she goes
     
                              WELLES 
               What the hell did that mean?!
     
     EXT HEDDA' S MANSION. PATIO MORNING
     
     Hedda paces and smokes as she waits on the phone. Finally, she is 
     connected:
     
                              HEDDA 
                  (brightly)
               Why hello, Mr. Hearst! I'm so delighted you could 
               take my call. I just wanted to let you know -- I saw 
               this Orson Welles picture last night. First 
               screening ever, don't cha know, and, Mr. Hearst, I 
               don't understand something . . . (she smiles 
               wickedly) ... I just don't understand why Louella 
               hasn't told you it ' s all about you. . . Yes, oh 
               yes . . . My pleasure, sir.
     
     She hangs up
     
                              HEDDA 
               Take that, you old cow
     
     INT SCHAEFER'S OFFICE      DAY
     
     Schaefer sits at his desk, going through some budget sheets. His 
     intercom buzzes, he presses a button:
     
                              SECRETARY'S VOICE Mr. Schaefer, Miss Parsons is here
     
                              SCHAEFER 
                  (into intercom)
               Here? As in right outside the door?
     
                              SECRETARY'S VOICE
               Yes, sir
     
                              SCHAEFER 
                  (chipper, into intercom)
               Well, send her in!
     
     He releases his intercom button
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Shit
     
     He bolts up and races to the liquor cabinet as Louella sweeps in like 
     the Lusitania in fur.
     
                              LOUELLA 
               Schaefer, I gotta see this Welles picture
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Louella, hello, I was just fixing a drink, would 
               you like--?
     
                              LOUELLA 
                  (eyeing gossip)
               You drink at 10 am, do you?
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               No -- no -- I mean--
     
                              LOUELLA 
               I wanna see the picture today
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               That might be a tad difficult because Orson is 
               scoring the picture now and he's very particular 
               about the music--
     
                              LOUELLA 
               Cut the malarkey, buddy. The boss himself wants me 
               to see the picture today.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               He personally asked you to?
     
                              LOUELLA 
               That's right
     
     Beat
     
                              SCHAEFER
               Hearst?
     
                              LOUELLA
               Uh-huh
     
     Beat
     
                              LOUELLA 
               I'll be back at noon. Set it up in screening room 
               four.
     
     She sweeps out
     
                              SCHAEFER
               Oh god 
     
     INT RKO SCREENING ROOM DAY 
     
     Louella watches CITIZEN KANE
     
     We watch her enormous face, grim and glowering, bathed in flickering 
     blue light as we hear a bit of the dialogue:
     
                              " KANE " 
               "You'll continue with your singing, Susan. I don't 
               propose to have myself made ridiculous. "
     
                              "SUSAN ALEXANDER" 
               "You don't propose to have yourself made ridiculous 
               I What about me?! I'm the one that's got to do the 
               singing! I'm the one who gets the razzberries!"
     
     With that, Louella bolts up and stomps out of the screening^ room... '
     
     INT OUTSIDE THE SCREENING ROOM FOLLOWING
     
     Welles and Schaefer are again nervously waiting in the hallway.
     
     Louella slams out the door and almost crashes into Welles A beat as she 
     glares at him. If looks could kill She storms off
     
     Welles and Schaefer are too stunned even to speak as we hear:
     
                              LOUELLA'S VOICE 
               It is . . . assassination.
     
     INT SAN SIMEON. ASSEMBLY ROOM DAY
     
     Hearst sits with one of his dachshunds on his lap Louella sits across 
     from him.
     
     Hearst does not move a muscle in the entire scene.
     
                              LOUELLA (CONT.) 
               It's all you. It has the political campaigns and 
               the mining fortune and the war with Pulitzer and the 
               castle. And ... Marion.
     
                              HEARST
               How so?
     
                              LOUELLA 
               The jigsaw puzzles and the, urn, career -- the man 
               spending a fortune to make her a star -- only it's 
               opera and not movies. And...
     
                              HEARST 
               Yes?
     
                              LOUELLA
                (quietly)
               The drinking.
     
     A beat
     
                              HEARST 
                  (very controlled)
               So my life is a subject for mockery. All of it. 
               Every detail. Every personal detail.
     
     Louella nods.
     
     A beat.
     
                              HEARST 
               Thank you for your time
     
                              LOUELLA
               Thank you, sir. She begins to leave
     
     A beat
     
     A pause
     
                              HEARST 
               Miss Parsons, I have one additional question for 
               you.
     
                              LOUELLA
               Sir?
                  (stops)
     
                              HEARST 
               Why did we not know about this sooner?
     
                              LOUELLA
               Sir?
     
                              HEARST 
               I pay you a good deal of money to be my eyes and 
               ears in Hollywood, do I not? If you cannot provide 
               this simple service you are of no use to me.
     
                              LOUELLA 
               Sir, I-
     
                              HEARST
                  (lethally)
               Please be quiet.
     
     A young man has made a motion picture detailing my life. This motion 
     picture was made at a not insignificant studio. And you knew nothing 
     about it.
     
                              LOUELLA
               He lied to me
     
                              LOUELLA 
               He looked into my face and told me it wasn't about 
               you.
     
                              HEARST 
               And how do you feel when you are lied to?
     
     A beat.
     
                              LOUELLA
               I want blood
     
                              HEARST 
               Good. Retain that feeling. Let it nourish you from 
               this day forth. It shall nourish us both
     
     She nods and leaves the room We linger on Hearst, his expression dark 
     and dangerous. 
     
     INT SCHAEFER'S OFFICE EVENING
     
     Welles reclines on a sofa, smoking a cigar, orating, while Schaefer 
     sits at his desk absently flipping through the evening edition of the 
     LA EXAMINER.
     
                              WELLES 
               Give me one dinner with her and I'll sort it out. 
               Woman of a certain age are woefully susceptible to a 
               younger man's charm. I'll make myself so 
               monumentally attractive that
     
     He is distracted by Schaefer flipping through the newspaper anxiously. 
     Schaefer tears back and forth in the paper and then swivels around in 
     his chair to grab another newspaper. He flips through it. And then 
     stops.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
                  (sickened)
               Oh Christ...
     
     Welles leaps up and goes to Schaefer's desk.
     
     Schaefer has placed the two newspapers side by side on his desk.
     
     He points to one
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               This is the morning edition of the EXAMINER.
     
     He points to the other
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               And this is the evening edition. Notice anything?
     
                              WELLES
               The ad..
     
     Indeed, the morning edition contains a large ad for the RKO movie KITTY 
     FOYLE. In the evening edition the ad has been replaced by innocuous 
     copy.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               They dumped our ad.
     
     He flips through the evening edition and then looks up at Welles.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
                  (quietly)
               They dumped all our ads.
     
     INT MAYER'S OFFICE DAY 
     
     Louis B. Mayer sits at his massive desk, taking notes Hearst sweeps in. 
     Mayer is surprised. 
     
                              HEARST
               Louis
     
                              MAYER
               Randolph!
     
                              HEARST 
               Hope you don't mind my popping in--
     
                              MAYER 
     
     No -- no -- sit down, please
     
                              HEARST 
                  (sitting)
               What a wretched place this is. I can't come to town 
               without feeling filthy. You really must buy that 
               parcel of land by the castle and come north.
     
     I only wish I could. You know, business
     
                              HEARST 
               Quite. And this is why I came to visit. Have you 
               heard about this CITIZEN KANE picture?
     
                              MAYER
               Over at RKO?
     
     A beat.
     
                              HEARST 
               Mm. Not a very good picture I am told.
     
                              MAYER 
                  (confused)
               Uh-hub.
     
                              HEARST 
               Apparently it details the exploits of a publisher 
               like myself. Entirely too much like myself. Do you 
               follow so far?
     
                              MAYER
               Yeah
     
     A beat.
     
                              HEARST 
               I can't see how the release of that picture will do 
               anyone any good, really.
     
                              HEARST 
               Say, while I'm in town why don't we play 18 holes 
               at Bel Air? Or maybe just nine. Do you have time for 
               a round today?
     
     He gazes at Mayer. Mayer looks at him, disquieted
     
     A pause.
     
     A beat
     
                              HEARST 
               And maybe we could get Mr. Warner and Mr. Goldwyn 
               and Mr. Cohn and Mr. Selznick to play as well.
     
                              MAYER 
                  (quietly)
               You know that can't happen.
     
                              HEARST 
               Oh, why is that?
     
                              HEARST 
               Why is that, Louis?
     
                              MAYER 
               Bel Air is restricted.

     
                              HEARST 
               Oh, that's right. How silly of me to have 
               forgotten. I sometimes forget that you're all Jews. 
               Lots of people forget that. If they ever knew it.
     
     A tense pause
     
                              HEARST 
               See what you can do about this CITIZEN KANE 
               picture, won't you?
     
                              MAYER 
                  (quietly)
               Yeah
     
     Hearst stands.
     
                              HEARST 
               And you'll come out to the castle soon, I hope 
               Marion and I would love to see more of you.
     
     He smiles and goes. Mayer sits, shaken 
     
     INT BROWN DERBY NIGHT 
     
     Schaefer sits with Louella in her corner booth
     
                              LOUELLA 
               That's right, fella, no Hearst paper will run an 
               RKO ad until you agree that CITIZEN KANE will never 
               see the light of day.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Louella, please, be reasonable, I understand you 
               have problems with Orson's picture but maybe we can 
               work something out--
     
                              LOUELLA 
               Nix, sweetie. You shelve it
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Oh for God's sake, Louella-
     
                              LOUELLA 
               And Mr. Hearst has authorized me to tell you that 
               you're looking at the most beautiful lawsuit in 
               history if you release this picture. He'll bleed 
               your little studio dry and you can all go on back to 
               New York and do Shakespeare with the Boy Wonder.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Can I talk to Hearst?
     
                              LOUELLA 
               You are talking to him.
     
     INT   SAN SIMEON. ASSEMBLY ROOM   DAY
     
     Hearst stands with his arms behind his back, very Kane-like, and 
     surveys a collection of about 30 newspapers spread around the floor at 
     his feet. His newspapers.
     
     Marion sits in a corner, doing needlepoint. Hearst picks up one of his 
     papers
     
                              HEARST 
               The Journal was pretty harsh to Roosevelt today.
     
                              MARION 
               You oughta lay off him -- he is the p-p-president, 
               after all.
     
                              HEARST 
               He is a Bolshevik. He will have us at war by the 
               end of the year. I think I'm going to run that 
               wheelchair picture.
     
                              MARION 
               Don't
     
     She holds up her needlepoint
     
                              MARION 
               Whaddaya think?
     
     It is a sampler reading: BLESS THIS CASTLE He laughs
     
     JOE WILLICOMBE, Hearst's private secretary, enters quietly. Willicombe 
     is a serious and sensitive man in his 60's. He is unquestioningly loyal 
     to the old man.
     
                              WILLICOMBE 
               Sir, we got the call.
     
     A moment. Hearst looks at him. Willicombe shakes his head sadly.
     
                              HEARST 
               Thank you, Joseph.
     
     Willicombe glides out
     
     A long pause as Hearst moves to a window and stares down at his domain. 
     Marion watches him.
     
                              MARION
               How bad is it?
     
                              HEARST 
               Nothing for you to worry about, darling
     
                              MARION
               Pops
     
     A beat
     
                              HEARST 
               The S.E.C. has turned down my request for relief on 
               the debts.
     
                              MARION
               How much?
     
                              HEARST 
               It's not really--
     
                              MARION
               How much?
     
     A -beat
     
                              HEARST
               125 million. 
     
     She is absolutely stunned. A pause 
     
                              MARION
                  (softly)
               We're 125 million dollars in debt?
     
                              HEARST
               Yes.
     
     A pause
     
     Hearst continues to gaze out the window. Marion goes to him and holds 
     him tenderly. ;
     
     They look down at the massive San Simeon estate spreading out like 
     Wonderland below them.
     
     INT
     
                              MARION 
               How does one get 125 million dollars in debt?
     
                              HEARST 
               One . . . buys things.
     
     INT RECORDING STAGE NIGHT
     
     KANE composer BERNARD HERMANN stands before an orchestra, going over 
     some of the music for KANE. He tries various measures and makes 
     adjustments. A movie screen is ready to run sections of the film.
     
     Welles sits at the back of the room, talking quietly to Gregg Toland. 
     Welles is bewitching, spinning a web:
     
                              WELLES 
               We open on Monument Valley. Those towering 
               stalagmites reaching up like pleading fingers to 
               God. A single figure treads the arid plains. The 
               crimson sun is behind him so his shadow stretches 
               toward us. He is a simple man wearing a simple robe. 
               A profoundly quiet and sad man. Who is he?
     
     Bernard Hermann turns back to Welles and Toland
     
                              BERNARD HERMANN 
               Orson, please..
     
                              WELLES 
                  (whispering, to Toland)
               Who is he, Gregg?
     
                              TOLAND 
                  (realizing)
               Oh, no--
     
                              WELLES
               Yes! 
     
                              TOLAND
               He's Christ? 
     
                              WELLES
               I'm Christ
     
                              TOLAND 
               You want to do the life of Jesus?
     
                              WELLES 
               Yes! Vibrant and modern and stark like a Picasso 
               sketch drawn to flashes of lightning I We shoot the 
               whole thing in the gallant American West--
     
     Mank joins them, carrying a newspaper.
     
                              MANK 
               Hey, kid. Gregg.
     
                              WELLES 
               Mank, sit down. You missed the opening of the new 
               picture but I'll go back--
     
                              MANK 
               No, you gotta hear this-
     
                              BERNARD HERMANN 
                  (snapping back at them)
               I'm trying to work here!
     
                              WELLES 
               Sorry, you keep at it, old boy.
     
     He leads Toland and Mank out of the stage and into the sound proof 
     recording booth...
     
     INT.  SOUND BOOTH 
     
     A few sound engineers and mixers work over recording panels and watch 
     Hermann and the orchestra as Welles, Toland and Mank enter.
     
                              MANK 
               You read Louella?
     
     Welles shudders
     
                              WELLES 
               No, but I can imagine. What am I today? A "puny 
               upstart" or a "spoiled dilettante" -- no, she 
               wouldn't know how to spell that
     
                              MANK 
                  (reads)
               "And how is the country to feel when this industry 
               continues to employ bedraggled foreigners and 
               swarthy refugees instead of real Americans? Doesn't 
               Hollywood know there's a Depression on? Don't real 
               Americans deserve work?"
     
                              WELLES 
                  (laughs)
               Well, at least she's off KANE today
     
                              MANK 
               No she's not. Don't you get it, ya lunk? She's 
               using code language to the studio bosses. 
               "Bedraggled foreigners and swarthy refugees" -- who 
               the hell do you think she's talking about?
     
                              WELLES 
                  (playfully)
               Hedy Lamarr?
     
                              MANK 
               Jews. She's talking about Jews.
     
     beat 
     
     Welles' smile fades.
     
                              MANK 
               Who owns this town? Who runs every goddamn studio? 
               The tribe, baby. These fuckers hear the word "Jew" 
               and they start sweating. Like Ester Williams' pool 
               they start sweating.
     
                              WELLES 
                  (growing tense)
               So they're Jews. . .
     
                              MANK 
               This is just the first shot. Maestro. Sooner or 
               later she's gonna use the word. And all those boys 
               know that there is only one thing this country hates 
               more than the coloreds and that's the Jews.
     
                              WELLES
               Christ.
     
                              MANK 
               Me, I'm proud to be a Jew, I got no problem. You 
               don't like it, fuck you. But with these guys it's 
               like a dirty word. All they wanna be is good red-
               white-and-blue Americans, and the way they see it 
               you can't be a good American and a Jew. So Sam 
               Goldfish becomes Sam Goldwyn and David Selznick 
               becomes David 0. Selznick -- like anyone's gonna 
               think he's Irish for fuck's sake--
     
                              WELLES 
               What does this have to do with--?
     
                              MANK 
                  (dead serious)
               Believe you me, they're gonna do anything -- and I 
               mean absolutely anything -- to stop that word from 
               gettin' out.
     
                              WELLES 
                  (sharply)
               What?! Are they going to kill me? Is that what 
               they're going to do?!
     
     One of the sound technicians turns to Welles:
     
                              SOUND TECHNICIAN Sorry, Mr. Welles, I can't really hear
     
     Welles, Mank and Toland quickly decamp to a hallway outside the 
     recording stage...
     
     INT HALLWAY FOLLOWING 
     
     They emerge into the hallway. Mank lights a cigar.
     
                              MANK 
                  (quietly)
               Let me tell you a story, son  So this was 1924, 
               right? Hearst was throwing a birthday party for 
               Thomas Ince, the old movie producer. They were all 
               on the old man's yacht taking a nice jaunt from 
               Pedro down to San Diego. Real foggy night it was. 
               This was Hearst, Marion, Ince, Charlie Chaplin, 
               Louella, the usual gorillas. So Hearst notices 
               Marion slip off with Chaplin -- she was screwing 
               everyone then -- and the old man goes nuts. Grabs 
               his revolver and starts shooting. Just like Tom Mix, 
               standing there blasting away through the fog. Boom -
               - boom -- boom -- and Thomas Ince takes a bullet 
               through the head. So now there's this dead guy lying 
               on the deck. You'll see how this could be quite an 
               embarrassment. So the empire goes into action. Nice 
               and quiet and Ince was cremated lickety-split. No 
               inquest and no police. It was right after this that 
               Hearst gives Louella her life-time contract. Just to 
               keep her all hush-hush.
     
     A beat as Mank gazes at Welles.
     
     A beat
     
                              MANK 
               If he had known about KANE before you made it, 
               you'd be dead already.
     
                              WELLES 
                  (weakly)
               It's too late. The movie's made
     
                              MANK 
               They won't let it out. Not Hearst. Not the other 
               studio heads--
     
                              WELLES 
               You wrote the damn thing, Mank Aren't you going to 
               fight for it?!
     
                              MANK 
                  (bitterly)
               I told you this was going to happen! I told you he 
               was going to come after us! So we took the chance 
               anyway and we lost. That's how it goes, okay? I got 
               my check, kid, and so did you -- and that's what 
               it's all about -- so fuck it and move on.
     
     Welles leans forward in a sudden explosion of anger
     
                              WELLES 
               I WILL NOT MOVE ON! Let them do their worst! These 
               petty tyrants! These monstrous, small men Do they 
               think they can stop us? I Who are they?! Who are 
               they?! THEY ARE . .. ACCOUNTANTS I
     
     Bernard Hermann appears at a doorway from the recording stage.
     
                              BERNARD HERMANN 
               We're ready. You want to hear it?
     
     Welles goes with Hermann into the stage. Toland and Mank stand in 
     silence. Then:
     
                              TOLAND 
               His next picture ... he wants to play Christ.
     
                              MANK 
               Hope he's planning to start with the crucifixion.
     
     76 INT RECORDING STAGE FOLLOWING 
     
     Welles sits at the back of the stage, deep in thought
     
     Bernard Hermann raises his baton and prepares to conduct. The opening 
     shots of KANE -- fog shrouded Xanadu -- are projected on the screen. 
     Hermann conducts and the orchestra plays.
     
     We watch the first images of the film with the brilliant music.
     
     We pull back to reveal we are at 
     
     INT SAN SIMEON. SCREENING ROOM NIGHT
     
     Hearst and Marion are sitting in the plush San Simeon screening room, 
     surrounded by a passel of dachshunds. Five or six friends are also 
     spread around the room. Joe Willicombe is also present.
     
     We watch their faces as they watch CITIZEN KANE
     
     During this sequence we hear bits and pieces of KANE as we watch Hearst 
     and Marion react.
     
     We see Marion's initial amusement give way to a forced neutrality.
     
     We see Hearst becoming increasingly uncomfortable, reacting physically, 
     almost writhing, as his soul is laid bare. Then his face grows cold. 
     Drained.
     
     We see Joe Willicombe, offended.
     
     We see the other guests, horrified and afraid to even so much as glance 
     at Hearst.
     
     Finally, we hear the ending of the movie:
     
                              "RAYMOND"
               "Throw that junk in, too.
     
     We hear Bernard Hermann's closing music begin to play out
     
     Hearst abruptly stands, the final images of the film washing over his 
     face.
     
                              HEARST 
               Switch it off SWITCH IT OFF
     
     The film suddenly stops and lights come up around the screening room.
     
     Silence No one looks at Hearst.
     
                              HEARST 
                  (quietly)
               Would everyone please leave
     
     The guests and Joe Willicombe solemnly file out A pause
     
                              MARION 
               Well -- he got us, didn't he?
     She stands and goes quickly to pour a drink. A forced laugh
     
                              MARION 
               Nailed us, hub? The crazy old man and his whore.
     
                              HEARST
               Marion--
     
                              MARION 
               Bought and p-p-paid for. Just like one of his 
               goddamn statues. Well at least in the movie he 
               married her!
     
                              HEARST 
               This picture--
     
                              MARION 
                  (deeply)
               I am not that woman.
     
     A beat.
     
     I know what I could have been. I know what I gave up to stay with you.
     
                              MARION 
                  (pained)
               I mean he's even got the goddamn jigsaw puzzles
     
     She dissolves into sobs. He cradles her in the empty screening room
     
     A beat
     
                              MARION 
               Why did he do that to us?
     
     INT SAN SIMEON. ASSEMBLY ROOM NIGHT
     
     Hearst is as we have never seen him before. He is in a titanic rage.
     
     He paces back and forth violently like a caged animal, becoming 
     increasingly manic and uncontrolled, clenching his fists and barking to 
     Joe Willicombe:
     
                              HEARST 
               And now of all times -- NOW -- when I am grasping 
               on with my fingernails to live at all this Orson We 
               lies -- this insect -- this reprehensible insect -- 
               has the nerve TO CHALLENGE ME! To show my life as 
               some cheap sideshow -- A FREAK SHOW -- A DYING, 
               IMPOTENT OLD FREAK IN HIS CASTLE!
     
     He smashes a collection of figurines and sends them sailing across the 
     room. Hearst's rage gives way to a darker passion:
     
                              HEARST 
                  (intensely)
               Mr. Willicombe -- you have seen me in adversity -- 
               you have seen me take on the unions and the Congress 
               and the railroads -- and we have risen above -- we 
               have risen above. And if that dog Welles thinks he 
               can strike at me now -- when he thinks I'm weak when 
               he thinks I'm vulnerable -- then he does not fully 
               comprehend the man is facing.
     
                              WILLICOMBE Mr. Welles can't know anything about the 
difficulties 
     we're--
     
                              HEARST 
               Get me Louella Parsons, now!
     
     Willicombe picks up a phone and begins dialing as Hearst continues:
     
                              HEARST 
               This upstart -- this puny man -- how does he even 
               dare to imagine he could comprehend my life and my 
               world when he crawls with the other insects in the 
               sewer -- in the dung -- when we control every moment 
               of his life from the instant he is born to the 
               instant we decide that he will die! Does he have no 
               idea of the power that controls him?!
     
                              WILLICOMBE 
               Mr. Hearst, I have Miss Par'
     
     Hearst snatches the phone from Willicombe
     
                              HEARST 
                  (on phone)
               Miss Parsons, Mr. Hearst. Use the file
     
     He slams down the phone
     
                              HEARST 
               Now get me J. Edgar Hoover
     
                              WILLICOMBE It's very late in Washington-
     
                              HEARST 
               Then wake him up!
     
     Willicombe begins to dial
     
                              HEARST 
                  (fervently)
               That insect thinks he knows me! He thinks he knows 
               my capabilities! When his neck is in my teeth and 
               his blood is in my throat then he will know WILLIAM 
               RANDOLPH HEARST!
     
     INT MAYER'S OFFICE. MGM DAY 
     
     Louis B. Mayor's eyes are blinking behind his glasses
     
     In his glasses we can see vague reflections of a series of grainy 
     photographs showing sex acts and illicit assignations and corpses and 
     mug shots.
     
     We pull back to reveal Mayer flipping through a stack of photos and 
     notes.
     
     Louella sits, smoking and supremely confident, across from him.
     
     Mayer finally closes the file and removes his glasses. He rubs his 
     eyes. He rises unsteadily and goes to a liquor cabinet and pours 
     himself a stiff drink. He gulps it down and then returns to his desk.
     
     A pause and then he finally looks at Louella
     
     A beat
     
     A beat
     
     A beat.
     
     A pause
     
                              LOUELLA 
               So what do we got here, L.B.? We got faggots and 
               commies and junkies. We got movie stars screwing 
               niggers and little girls. We got killers and 
               perverts and whores.
     
                              LOUELLA 
               We got MGM and Warner Brothers and Columbia and 
               Disney and Fox.
     
                              LOUELLA
               We got Jews
     
                              LOUELLA 
               We got Hollywood.
     
                              MAYER 
                  (quietly)
               What do you want?
     
                              LOUELLA 
               Kill CITIZEN KANE.
     
                              MAYER
               How?
     
                              LOUELLA 
               I don't give a shit.
     
     A beat
     
                              LOUELLA 
               The boss is working on some stuff and I'm working 
               on some stuff. Now I want all you boys working on 
               some stuff. Cause if it looks like this picture's 
               ever gonna come out -- I start running down the 
               street with these pictures like a screaming woman 
               with my throat cut, you follow?
     
     J. EDGAR HOOVER'S OFFICE
     
     DAY
     
     Bulldog-like FBI Director HOOVER sits erect at his desk. Behind him an 
     imposing FBI Seal catches the light.
     
     He presses a button on his intercom.
     
                              HOOVER 
               Agent McCabe, if you please.
     
     His secretary, clean-cut FBI agent McCABE, enters quickly with a note 
     pad. Agent McCabe scribbles as Hoover dictates:
     
     EXT.
     
                              HOOVER 
               Open a new file. Heading: Welles, Orson. Native 
               born. Communist.
     
     HILLS AROUND SAN SIMEON     DAY
     
     Marion and Joe Willicombe sit in deck chairs under the blazing sun. 
     Marion absently pets a dachshund in her lap. Servants stand behind them 
     with lunch and trays of iced tea
     
     They watch Hearst riding a horse in the distance A pause. Then:
     
                              MARION 
               How bad is it?
     
                              WILLICOMBE
               Miss Davies--
     
                              MARION 
               Come on Joe. How bad is it?
     
     A beat.
     
                              WILLICOMBE
               It's finished
     
     Hearst gallops up to them. A servant helps him down from his horse. He 
     strides briskly to Marion and Willicombe as:
     
                              HEARST 
               I've been thinking about the Tribune in Chicago. 
               The Examiner just can't make any headway. 
               Circulation is still down. I think we should buy the 
               Tribune.
     
     Marion glances to Willicombe and then looks at Hearst with great 
     tenderness.
     
                              MARION 
               Sure, Pops. That's a swell idea
     
     INT MANK'S HOUSE. SANTA MONICA DAY
     
     Manks pounding away at a typewriter in his tiny beach house.
     
     He grumbles to himself as he types:
     
                              MANK 
               ... and Rita Hayworth says: "You see, he truly was 
               the Son of God" ... big Toland lighting effect ... 
               blah, blah, blah ...
     
     A knock at the door. Mank answers it. Clean-cut FBI Agent McCabe stands 
     outside. He flashes his badge.
     
                              AGENT McCABE 
               Mr. Mankiewicz, I'm Special Agent McCabe of the 
               Federal Bureau of Investigation. Might I have a 
               moment of your time?
     
                              MANK 
               Sure, kid, come in. I'm writing the crucifixion and 
               it's a bitch. Sit down
     
     Agent McCabe sits and snaps open a note pad
     
                              AGENT McCABE 
               I would like to ask you a few questions about Mr. 
               Welles.
     
                              MANK 
               You guys after Orson too?
     
                              AGENT McCABE 
               Mr. Mankiewicz.
     
                              MANK
               Shoot
     
                              AGENT McCABE 
               Are you aware of Mr. Welles' Communist 
               affiliations?
     
                              MANK 
               Shit, Orson's no pink. He's everything else under 
               the sun, but he's no pink.
     
                              AGENT McCABE 
               Are you aware of Mr. Welles' Communist 
               affiliations?
     
                              MANK
               No, I am not
     
                              AGENT McCABE 
               Do you have any knowledge of Communists working 
               within the motion picture industry?
     
                              AGENT McCABE 
               Do you have any knowledge of Communists working 
               within the motion picture industry?
     
                              MANK
               No
     
                              AGENT McCABE 
               Are you now or have you ever been a member of, or 
               affiliated with, the Communist Party or any of its 
               front organizations in the United States?
     
                              MANK
               Stop it
     
                              AGENT McCABE 
               Are you now or have you ever been a member of--
     
                              MANK 
               I think you better leave
     
                              AGENT McCABE 
               Are you now or have you--
     
                              MANK 
                  (grim)
               Get the fuck outta my house.
     
     Agent McCabe snaps his note pad closed and stands.
     
                              AGENT McCABE 
                  (crisply)
               Thank you for your time, Mr. Mankiewicz. We'll be 
               in touch.
     
     Agent McCabe leaves
     
                              MANK 
                  (calling after him)
               Don't bother, you low-life prick
     
     Mank slams the door
     
     He stands for a moment, pale, and then goes to the kitchen and pours 
     himself a stiff drink.
     
     INT SAN SIMEON, ASSEMBLY ROOM DAY
     
     Marion is pouring a drink as well. She quickly fills a glass of Scotch 
     and then begins striding back and forth across the Assembly Room.
     
     Hearst sits quietly at one of the jigsaw puzzles He occasionally and 
     absently puts a piece in place.
     
     She has clearly been at him for some time
     
                              MARION 
               Then you explain it to me?!
     
                              HEARST 
               There's nothing to explain
     
                              MARION 
               A million dollars a year on art and st-st-statues 
               and there's nothing to explain?!
     
                              HEARST 
               I will not defend my life to you--
     
                              MARION 
               I'm not asking you to defend anything. But we're in 
               a pickle and we gotta talk about it.
     
                              HEARST 
               We are in no "pickle" -- as you would 
               euphemistically have it.
     
                              MARION 
               You gotta wake up now. Pops.
     
                              HEARST 
               There is nothing to discuss-
     
                              MARION 
               You don't have any money left, okay?! That's the 
               truth. I don't wanna say it, nobody else will say 
               it, but it's the truth. You spent it all. You can't 
               buy the Tribune in Chicago -- you can't buy ^ g-g-
               goddamn thing. Now you better face up to it--
     
                              HEARST 
               You are being typically theatrical, Marion. I need 
               the Tribune to--
     
                              MARION 
               You don't need it! That's the problem you always 
               think you need everything--
     
     Marion spins to a medieval arras cloth hanging from one wall.
     
                              MARION 
               That -- did you need that? How much did that cost?
     
                              HEARST 
               It's 12th Century. From Deauville -- in France.
     
                              MARION 
               I know where Deauville is for C-C-Christ's sake.
     
                              HEARST 
               You needn't use that language with me
     
                              MARION 
               Did you need it? Did you need any of it?
     
                              HEARST
               I wanted it
     
                              MARION 
               There's a different between want and
     
                              HEARST 
                  (tightly)
               Not for me.
     
                              MARION 
                  (frustrated)
               But why? Just so you can show it all off -- just so 
               everyone can see what a b-b-big man you are?!
     
     He stands quickly
     
                              HEARST 
                  (angrily)
               That's right. You've captured me exactly. 
               Goodnight.
     
                              MARION 
               You will not walk out on me
     
                              HEARST 
               You are repellant when you drink.
     
                              MARION 
               Tough shit. We need to t-t-talk about this--
     
                              HEARST 
               You are slovenly and unattractive and I won't (he 
               mercilessly mimics her) t-t-t-tolerate it.
     
     A cold beat
     
     A pause.
     
                              MARION 
               Fuck you, Mr. Kane.
     
                              HEARST 
                  (darkly)
               I will not have this in my home.
     
                              MARION 
               I just want to understand--
     
                              HEARST 
                  (suddenly)
               No, you don't. You want to condemn me, like 
               everyone else. You want to point to the pathetic, 
               old man grown lunatic with his spending -- trapped 
               in his ridiculous
     
                              HEARST  (CONT.) 
               castle -- still fighting old battles he will never 
               win with Pulitzer and Roosevelt and Hollywood--
     
                              MARION 
               I don't want you to--
     
                              HEARST 
               There is nothing to understand but this:   I am a 
               man who could have been great, but was not.
     
     He leaves 
     
     INT SAN SIMEOM. MARION'S BEDROOM DAY
     
     A silent scene as we see Marion rummaging through some drawers in her 
     vanity table.
     
     A suitcase can be seen on the bed behind her.
     
     She removes various jewelry cases and pours an astounding array of gems 
     into a black leather pouch.
     
     INT.  ELIZABETH ARDEN SALON. BEVERLY HILLS DAY
     
     Marion sits with Carole Lombard in a secluded section of the luxurious 
     salon.
     
     A quiet scene.
     
                              MARION 
               When I met him I was just 20. And he was 55. I saw 
               the gold ring and just grabbed on. And he was going 
               to make me a star.  
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD
               And he did.
     
     A beat.
     
                              MARION 
               When I was making movies I kept begging him to let 
               me do comedies. Silly stuff, you know. But Pops 
               doesn't get comedy too well so he kept putting me in 
               all those godawful p-p-period dramas.
     
     Carole Lombard smiles.
     
                              MARION 
               I did my best but, well, you know me
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD
               Sure
     
                              MARION 
               Thing that bothers me now, though, looking back is 
               that I really think I could have been something ... 
               special.
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               Thinking like that is only gonna drive you nuts You 
               were a great star and you had a good run. That 
               oughta be enough.
     
                              MARION 
               Yeah. But all of a sudden it's not
     
                              MARION 
               You know this CITIZEN KANE picture? About Pops and 
               everything?
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD
               Uh-huh
     
                              MARION 
               The character that's supposed to be me, Susan 
               Alexander--
     
                              CAROLE LOMBARD 
               Marion, everyone knows you're not like that--
     
                              MARION 
               But I am That's the killer, honey.
     
     This little girl comes from nowhere and gets discovered by this guy. 
     And maybe she has some real talent way deep down. But he pays the bills 
     and he makes the decisions. And somewhere along the way ... she gets 
     lost.
     
                              MARION 
               It's hell when you gotta look back and say, 
               goddamn, what I could have been.
     
     JEWELRY STORE. BEVERLY HILLS
     
     Marion enters a posh Beverly Hills jewelry shop. She is wearing 
     sunglasses.
     
     She nervously goes to the counter and the SHOP OWNER glides to her. For 
     Marion, the entire experience is humiliating. This results in her 
     stutter becoming increasingly more pronounced.
     
                              SHOP OWNER 
               May I help you?
     
                              MARION 
               I, um, need an estimate on some jewelry I might 
               wish to sell. But d-d-discretion is very important 
               to me b-b-because I don't want anyone t-t-to, um, 
               know that--
     
                              SHOP OWNER 
               Excuse me, I hope this isn't rude, but aren't you 
               Marion Davies?
     
                              MARION
               Yes.
     
                              SHOP OWNER 
               Well, this is a great pleasure. Miss Davies! I just 
               saw that ENCHANTMENT is playing at a the Tivoli, the 
               revival house in Santa Monica. That was a fine 
               picture!
     
                              MARION
               Thank you-
     
                              SHOP OWNER 
               Not one of them today has what you had, Miss 
               Davies. Not one of them.
     
                              MARION 
               Thank you -- b-b-but I'd really like t-t-to--
     
                              SHOP OWNER 
               Of course, of course. How can we be of service?
     
                              MARION 
               As I said I have some j-j-j-j- (she simply can't 
               get the word out) that I might wish t-t-to sell and 
               I wanted an estimate--
     
                              SHOP OWNER 
               Surely My pleasure, Miss Davies..
     
     Marion removes the leather pouch from her purse and pours a stunning 
     collection of jewelry on a black felt tablet on the counter.
     
                              SHOP OWNER
                  (awed)
               My Lord. . .
     
     Marion removes her sunglasses and looks at him. Her eyes are red.
     
                              MARION 
               How much for the lot?
     
     EXT RKO LOT DAY
     
     Welles is pursuing Schaefer as they stride through the bustling RKO 
     backlot.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               What do you want me to do, Orson? Radio City won't 
               premiere the picture. Louella threatened them with 
               some bullshit about
     
                              WELLES 
               Then find another theater
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               You don't think I've tried? No one is willing to 
               open the picture
     
                              WELLES 
               Then we'll open it in Detroit or Dallas or 
               Kalamazoo for God's sake! We'll show it in goddamn 
               circus tents and--!
     
     Schaefer stops.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Listen to me. The press ban is killing us and the 
               distributors won't book it. And meantime I'm dealing 
               with the stockholders in New York who are scared 
               shitless -- and I'm this far from getting fired 
               myself -- and you don't have a friend in the world 
               but me right now. So you have got to trust that I'll 
               do what I can to--
     
                              WELLES 
                  (desperately)
               "Do what you can"?! That's not good enough I
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Well it' s all you've got !
     
                              WELLES 
                  (suddenly)
               You're with them, aren't you? You're going to bury 
               my movie. They bought you!
     
                              SCHAEFER 
                  (turning away)
               For Christ's sake, shut up--
     
                              WELLES 
               Why don't you just have the guts to admit it
     
                              SCHAEFER 
                  (spinning on him)
               How dare you talk to me like that! Do you think I'm 
               like all the rest of those pirates?! Like Mayer and 
               Warner? Is that what you think--?!
     
                              WELLES 
               It's just that my movie is so-
     
                              SCHAEFER 
                  (savagely)
               "Your movie" -- I am so sick of that! It's your 
               movie -- but it's his life! Did you ever think about 
               that?! Did you ever think about that old man and 
               Marion having to watch as you tore them apart?!
     
                              WELLES
     
     I didn't--
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Do you every think for one second that you might 
               have some responsibility for what you're doing?! For 
               cutting and slashing everything in your way so you 
               can have your goddamn movie?!
     
                              WELLES 
               That soulless monster gets no tears from me.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Who the fuck are you trying to kid? You are that 
               soulless monster.
     
     Schaefer turns and stomps away Welles stands, lost for a moment in the 
     dream factory
     
     In a bit of a daze, Welles slowly begins walking through the backlot. A 
     bustle of loud activity in a corner of the lot draws his attention.
     
     A bulldozer and a dozen workmen are busy tearing down the facade of a 
     large white mansion. They strip the wood off and toss it into an 
     incinerator.
     
     Welles sees Schaefer standing before all this activity, deep in 
     thought.
     
     Welles goes to him and they stand together in silence for a moment as 
     they watch the house being razed.
     
                              SCHAEFER
               Recognize 
     
     Welles shakes his head
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               It's Tara. From GONE WITH THE WIND
     
     Pause as they watch Scarlett O'Hara's dream mansion being torn apart.
     
                              WELLES
               It's ... sad
     
     A beat.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Not really. It's only a set, after all Just lumber. 
               .
     
                              SCHAEFER 
                  (quietly)
               You know, we make all these pictures, we turn em 
               out one after another, without thinking most of the 
               time. Just like making toasters or Packards or 
               toothpaste. But then sometimes ... something amazing 
               happens and you get a GONE WITH THE WIND.
     
     Or a CITIZEN KANE
     
                              SCHAEFER (CONT.) 
               And no one can ever take that away from you.
     
     They gaze at the destruction of Tara as we hear:
     
                              RADIO ANNOUNCER (VOICE OVER) 
               ... and in financial news, rumors continue to swirl 
               around the head of publishing baron William Randolph 
               Hearst. . .
     
     INT SAN SIMEON. ROMAN POOL NIGHT
     
     Hearst sits in a wicker chair by the shimmering in-door Roman Pool. But 
     for Hearst and the single chair, the pool is deserted and has no other 
     furniture.
     
     Hearst is staring at the gold and blue mosaic of tiles reflected in the 
     water.
     
     As we hear:
     
                              RADIO ANNOUNCER (VOICE OVER, CONT.)
                ... Sources report that the Hearst Empire is 
               facing some rocky times ahead as the press lord is 
               facing mounting debts and shrinking revenues due to 
               over expansion and fiscal mismanagement that have 
               resulted in...
     
     The radio voice fades to silence.
     
     The silence continues but for the haunting echo of a lion roaring in 
     the distance. Then Hearst hears the sound of footsteps echoing on the 
     tile. He looks up. It is Marion. She walks around the pool to him.
     
     Without a word she hands him a check.
     
     It is made out to William Randolph Hearst in the amount of one million 
     dollars and is signed Marion Davies.
     
     A long pause. He looks up at her, profoundly moved.
     
                              MARION 
               I started out as a gold-digger, ya know But goddamn 
               if I didn't fall in love with the guy.
     
     EXT MAYER'S ESTATE DAY
     
     A row of six shining limousines are lined up in front of Mayor's 
     enormous house. The chauffeurs stand together and chat.
     
     EXT.  MAYER'S ESTATE. BACKYARD
     
     Mayer sits in the glorious back garden of his house. Six other men are 
     gathered around him.
     
     Mayer nods his head to each as we pan around the faces
     
                              MAYER 
               Mr. Zanuck ... Mr. Warner ... Mr. Cohn Mr. Disney 
               .. . Mr. Goldwyn . . . Mr. Selznick.
     
     A beat.
     
     Thank you all for coming. You got my memo. What do we do?
     
     A beat
     
                              JACK WARNER 
               He's a fucking punk, why does Hearst give a shit?
     
                              MAYER 
               It's enough that he does
     
                              SAM GOLDWYN 
               Would Louella really do it?
     
                              MAYER 
               In a New York minute
     
                              DAVID 0. SELZNICK 
               I say to hell with Louella and to hell with Hearst! 
               Bring 'em on. We can take em.
     
                              HARRY COHN 
               We all didn't make GONE WITH THE WIND, ya know. 
               Some of us gotta look at this checkbook-wise.
     
                              MAYER 
               Who isn't hurting already? All this Jew talk and 
               these Communist rumors. Look, he's boycotting RKO 
               ads right now -- but how long before he takes on 
               Warners or Fox or Columbia?
     
                              HARRY COHN
               Goddamn right.
     
     A beat.
     
                              MAYER 
               And if Hearst goes public with all this filthy 
               private lives stuff, Hollywood's sunk. He's got us 
               nailed. Dates. Times. Photographs for God's sake.
     
                              WALT DISNEY 
               I don't mean to be funny, but what could he have on 
               Mickey Mouse?
     
                              MAYER 
               He's got you so tied in with J. Edgar Hoover and 
               America First that you might as well put on a brown 
               shirt and kiss those happy little kiddies so-long.
     
                              DAVID 0. SELZNICK 
                  (suddenly)
               Have any of you actually seen the movie?
     
     A beat.
     
                              DAVID 0. SELZNICK 
               I have. It's probably the greatest motion picture 
               ever made. Nothing's going to be the same after 
               this. With this one movie he's changed the way we 
               see--
     
                              JACK WARNER 
               Who the fuck cares?
     
                              DAVID 0. SELZNICK 
               I do. And so should all of you--
     
                              JACK WARNER 
               Get off the soapbox--
     
     Selznick stands.
     
                              DAVID 0. SELZNICK 
               I want no part of this. We should be marching into 
               George Schaefer's office and standing with him. He's 
               one of us!
     
                              MAYER
               David-
     
                              DAVID 0. SELZNICK 
               If I ever got into trouble I'd like to think that 
               you all would be with me -- not planning to stab me 
               in the back like a bunch of ... a bunch of ... 
               producers!
     
     He storms off
     
                              JACK WARNER
                  (to Mayer)
               Your son-in-law meshuaena.
     
     A pause.
     
     Laughter
     
     A pause.
     
                              DISNEY 
                  (nervously)
               He's got me and Hoover?
     
                              JACK WARNER 
               Relax, Walt, at least he don't have you screwing 
               Snow White. I got fucking Errol Flynn on my payroll!
     
                              SAM GOLDWYN 
                  (to Mayer)
               You're a smart man, L.B. I suspect you would not 
               have called us here without a plan. Give over.
     
                              MAYER 
               We will buy the movie and we will destroy it.
     
                              MAYER 
               We will assemble a fund between us -- privately, 
               'not studio money -- we will assemble this fund and 
               we will go to George Schaefer and we will buy the 
               negative and every print of CITIZEN KANE and we will 
               burn them.
     
     A long pause
     
                              MAYER 
               If I do not hear an objection to this agenda in the 
               next five seconds I will assume the motion has 
               carried.
     
     Five seconds tick by as we focus on the titans of Hollywood
     
                              MAYER 
               Very well, my associates will be in touch to 
               arrange payment. Thank you for your time.
     
     INT RECORDING STAGE DAY
     
     KANE composer Bernard Hermann again stands before the orchestra, his 
     arm poised, waiting to begin conducting. He is about to record some new 
     music for the deep-focus Thatcher/Bernstein/Kane scene from CITIZEN 
     KANE.
     
     Welles sits nearby, supervising everything. Welles nods and on a movie 
     screen the scene from KANE begins and Hermann starts conducting. The 
     orchestra plays.
     
     The music carries into and gradually fades during.
     
     INT SAN SIMEON. ASSEMBLY ROOM DAY
     
     In a scene eerily reminiscent of the Thatcher/Bernstein/Kane scene, 
     Marion sits in the extreme foreground, a man we do not know sits at 
     middle distance at a desk and Hearst stands far away.
     
     Hearst has his back to them and stares out a window.
     
     The new man is MR. LEWIS, a tight banker from New York, 50's.
     
     He looks over a thick legal document on the desk as he speaks:
     
                              LEWIS You will retain some editorial control over the remaining 
     newspapers but the actual ownership will go to the Conservation 
     Committee and the banks. We will be immediately closing 12 of the 
     papers and the wire services. And we will be liquidating other assets 
     as soon as possible. Most of the land in Mexico as well as your 
     collection of art and antiquities--
     
                              MARION 
                  (quietly)
               Mr. Hearst spent his life collecting that art.
     
                              LEWIS 
                  (ignoring her)
               We've been in touch with Gimbels in New York and 
               they've agreed to hold a special sale. They're 
               giving over an entire floor for the merchandise. 
               You'll have to go there in person to sign the bill 
               of sale, by the way.
     
                              HEARST 
                  (softly, not turning)
               I'll have to sell the animals.
     
                              LEWIS 
               And we don't know whether we'll be able to retain 
               the castle. The land has some capital and we might 
               keep it on as an investment. Maybe break it up into 
               smaller units for housing.
     
     A long pause Hearst finally turns and walks to them.
     
                              HEARST 
                  (to Lewis)
               When will it come out? When will the public know?
     
                              LEWIS 
               We can't keep it a secret, sir. Once we announce 
               the Gimbels sale and start liquidating the assets.
     
                              MARION 
                  (pained)
               This is your whole life. Pops. Don't do it. We'll 
               find another way..
     
     A long beat as he looks at her. Then he quickly signs the document on 
     the desk. He puts down the pen and leaves the room without a word 
     
     INT SAN SIMEON. STAIRWAY NIGHT 
     
     Marion sits nestled on a sweeping marble stairway Weeping
     
     INT NIGHTCLUB. HOLLYWOOD NIGHT
     
     A swank benefit dinner is in progress A band plays
     
     A banner hangs over the nightclub stage: CHILDREN'S MILK FUND BENEFIT, 
     1940
     
     We float through the elegant crowd and spy Louis B. Mayer and Louella; 
     Clark Gable and Carole Lombard; all manner of movie stars and power 
     brokers.
     
     We also spy Schaefer sitting with Mank and Toland and a few other men 
     and women.
     
     The evening's EMCEE takes the stage
     
                              EMCEE 
               Next up we have a real treat. It's Orson Welles. 
               Now, during the rehearsal for the benefit tonight 
               Orson banished everyone from the club so he could 
               proceed in utmost secrecy. But you all know how 
               Orson is!
     
     Laughter from the crowd
     
                              EMCEE 
               So, lets give a big round of applause for Mr. Orson 
               Welles and Miss Rita Hayworth.
     
     Polite applause as Welles bounds to the stage with RITA HAYWORTH and 
     the band begins to play a buoyant tune.
     
     Schaefer practically drops his fork
     
     Welles is dressed in a padded costume and made up in a way that can 
     suggest no one but William Randolph Hearst. Rita Hayworth is dressed in 
     a manner mightily like Marion Davies.
     
     Louella glances to Mayer, daggers. Some knowing laughter from the 
     audience. Particularly Mank
     
     A line of chorus girls hoof on and join Welles and Rita Hayworth as a 
     row of harsh footlights snap on, giving the scene a resemblance to the 
     "Charlie Kane" dance in CITIZEN KANE.
     
     And Welles launches into a jaunty song and dance version of 
     "DISGUSTINGLY RICH" an almost unknown Rodgers and Hart song;'. Welles 
     has wickedly changed some of the lines. '
     
                              WELLES 
               "I'll buy everything I wear at Saks. I'll print 
               gossip and I'll call it facts
     
                              RITA HAYWORTH 
               "Swear like a trooper, Live in a stupor--
     
                              WELLES AND RITA HAYWORTH 
               "Just disgustingly rich!
     
                              WELLES 
               "I'll make money and I'll make it quick, Starting 
               little wars I think are slick. Smother her in 
               sables, Like Betty Grable's-- Just disgustingly 
               rich.  "I'll build a castle, That'll cost a passel. 
               And as a resident, I will pan the president I'll 
               aspire, Higher and Higher. "I'll get married and 
               I'll buy a girl, So darn pretty that your head will 
               swirl
     
                              RITA HAYWORTH 
               "Swimming in highballs-- Stewed to the eyeballs--
     
                              WELLES AND RITA HAYWORTH 
               "Just disgustingly rich!
     
     Welles, Rita Hayworth and the chorines do a nifty soft-shoe turn as 
     Schaefer turns to Mank:
     
                              SCHAEFER 
                  (seriously)
               He truly doesn't care if he ever works again.
     
                              MANK 
               Yeah, ain't it swell?
     
     Welles and Rita Hayworth conclude their little dance break and Welles 
     resumes the song:
     
                              WELLES 
               "Ev'ry summer I will sail the sea, On my little 
               yacht the Normandie, Pet my little dachshund 
               friends, Kiss Louella's big rear end, Just 
               disgustingly rich.
     
     About here Louella storms out.
     
     "I'll eat salmon, I'll play backgammon. Turn breakfast into brunch, 
     I'll take Thomas Ince to lunch I'll aspire, Higher and Higher.
     
     About here Louis B Mayer and a few others storm out.
     
                              RITA HAYWORTH 
               "He'll be photographed with Myrna Loy, Just to 
               prove he is a glamour boy.
     
                              WELLES 
               "Perfumed and scented, Slightly demented-- Just 
               disgustingly rich
     
                              RITA HAYWORTH 
               "I'll get my capers, Into his papers. Hoping his 
               folly would Lead me out to Hollywood. I'll aspire, 
               Higher and higher.
     
     About here Schaefer buries his face in his hands
     
                              WELLES AND RITA HAYWORTH 
               "In the funnies and the valentines, We'll be 
               pictured drinking Ballantine's. Dopey and screwy, 
               Voting for Dewey.  Just disgustingly-- Too, too 
               disgustingly-- Riiiiich! "
     
     Welles and Rita Hayworth conclude the number with a big flourish.
     
     Some applause
     
     Mank stands and applauds loudly. Laughing. Welles bows solemnly to Mank 
     
     EXT NIGHTCLUB FOLLOWING
     
     Later that night, Welles is about to climb into his limousine outside 
     the nightclub with Rita Hayworth when Schaefer suddenly appears and 
     grabs his lapel.
     
                              WELLES 
                  (happily)
               George- -!
     
     Without a word, Schaefer pulls Welles roughly into an alley beside the 
     nightclub. He slams Welles into the alley wall.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
                  (brutally)
               This isn' t some kinda fucking game! You know how 
               many people RKO employs?! You know how many people 
               depend on what we do for a living?!
     
                              WELLES 
               I really think you're
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               You wanna commit suicide, fine! You got some death-
               wish, fine! But you will not drag this company down 
               with you!
     
                              WELLES 
               It was a -joke, George
     
     Schaefer slaps Welles firmly across the face. Welles is stunned.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               There are no jokes! There are people making a 
               living. There is food on the table!
     
     Schaefer glares at him and then rages off
     
     Welles straightens his suit and then, with a shaking hand, reaches for 
     a cigar. He tries to laugh, but cannot.
     
     INT SCHAEFER'S OFFICE. RKO DAY
     
     Schaefer sits at his desk, absolutely dazed. Speechless
     
     B. Mayer sits across from him.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Where did this money come from?
     
     beat
     
                              MAYER
               It came.
     
                              MAYER 
               800,000 dollars fully covers the production budget 
               and a little more. Hell, George, you even make a 
               profit on the deal.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Very generous
     
                              MAYER 
               And we gotta be clear here. I need the negative and 
               every existing print.
     
                              SCHAEFER
               To do what?
     
                              MAYER 
               That's for me to decide.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               You're going to destroy it
     
                              MAYER 
               No, maybe put it on the shelf until the old man 
               kicks it.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               You're lying to me.
     
                              MAYER 
               We already made the same offer to the stockholders.
     
     Schaefer is stunned.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               You talked to New York?
     
                              MAYER
               Yes
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               You talked to Mr. Swanbeck?
     
     Pause. 
     
                              MAYER
               Yes
     
                              SCHAEFER
               Get out
     
                              MAYER 
               You're bettin' on an inside straight this time. 
               You'll never pull it off.
     
                              SCHAEFER
               Get out. 
     
     Mayer stands and smiles
     
                              MAYER 
               This picture, George, it'll just break your heart.
     
     Mayer goes. Schaefer sits, smelling defeat.
     
     We linger on Schaefer as a haunting echo of "I CAN'T GET STARTED" is 
     heard. . .
     
     INT/EXT SAN SIMEON NIGHT
     
     We float through the estate as we hear the ghostly strains of Bunny 
     Berigan's recording of "I CAN'T GET STARTED."
     
     It is a sad journey.
     
     By this time many of the ornate antiquities have been removed from the 
     castle and it resembles Welles' stark and dreary Xanadu all the more.
     
                              BUNNY BERIGAN 
               "I've flown around the world in a plane, I've 
               settled revolutions in Spain, And the North Pole I 
               have charted, Still I can't get started with you...
     
     We float past the private zoo, now empty, the cages hanging open. We 
     move past the tennis courts, empty.
     
                              BUNNY BERIGAN 
               "On the golf course I'm under par, Metro Goldwyn 
               has asked me to star, I've got a house, a show 
               place, Still I can't get no place with you.
     
     We float into the castle itself and through the stripped- down 
     Screening Room and the Assembly Room and the Great Dining Hall.
     
     All are mere shadows of their past glory.
     
                              BUNNY BERIGAN 
               "Cause you're so supreme, Lyrics I write of you, I 
               dream, dream day and night of you And I scheme just 
               for the sight of you, Baby, what good does it do...?
     
     We finally float into the ballroom
     
     A record of "I CAN'T GET STARTED" spins forlornly on a turntable.
     
     And Marion and Hearst are having a quiet, poignant dance together in 
     the middle of the empty ballroom.
     
                              BUNNY BERIGAN 
               "I've been consulted by Franklin D. Greta Garbo has 
               had me to tea, Still I'm broken hearted Cause I 
               can't get started with you.
     
     They finally stop dancing and stand swaying gently. Then they stop 
     swaying.
     
                              HEARST 
                  (gently)
               Ah, Miss Davies, the times we have seen
     
     She holds him closely as "I CAN'T GET STARTED" concludes 
     
     INT CHASEN'S RESTAURANT. PRIVATE ROOM DAY
     
     Welles has booked a private room at Chasen's. A long banquet table 
     contains cans of sterno heating various dishes.
     
     Large photographs of the American West and renderings from THE LIFE OF 
     CHRIST are scattered around other tables.
     
     Welles wanders around the renderings with Gregg Toland and Mank. Welles 
     carries a plate of food and consumes as:
     
                              TOLAND 
               See, this is the Great Salt Lake -- we do the 
               baptism here.
     
                              MANK 
               Great scene where John the Baptist pulls your head 

               out of the water and says, "Look up, and behold your 
               destiny"
     
                              WELLES 
               Is that from one of the Gospels?
     
                              MANK
               Kinda.
     
     Schaefer enters.
     
                              WELLES 
               George! Enter And Behold
     
     Schaefer blinks at the massive photos and renderings.
     
                              WELLES 
               You're not still mad at me, I hope
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               No, we're jake. But listen-
     
                              WELLES 
               Look, not a single scene shot in the studio! We've 
               found natural locations for the whole story--
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Hold on a sec. I got news. We finally found 
               somewhere to premiere KANE but--
     
                              WELLES 
               I told you! Where? Grauman's? El Capitan? Or did 
               Radio City come crawling back?
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               The Palace in New York. But Orson there's something 
               else.
     
     Welles stops eating
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               I think you better sit down
     
                              WELLES 
                  (evenly)
               I don't want to sit
     
     Beat.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               The bosses -- the other studios -- they want to buy 
               the film and destroy it.
     
     Absolute silence
     
     Pause
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               They came to me with an offer. 800,000 for the 
               negative and all the prints.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               And they went to the stockholders in New York.
     
                              MANK 
                  (quietly)
               Oh God.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               I been talking to Swanbeck in New York and... 
               Orson, I think they're gonna take it A long pause as 
               Welles looks at Schaefer
     
     Welles suddenly FLINGS his plate of food in Schaefer's direction as he 
     ROARS:
     
                              WELLES 
               YOU STUPID, LITTLE MAN! HOW COULD YOU HAVE LET THIS 
               HAPPEN?! I GAVE YOU MY SOUL AND NOW YOU'RE GOING TO 
               SELL IT!?
     
                              MANK 
               This ain't George's doing--!
     
     Welles- rampages around the room
     
                              WELLES 
               I PUT MY LIFE INTO THAT PICTURE -- EVERYTHING I'VE 
               BEEN -- EVERYTHING I COULD BE---IT'S CITIZEN KANE! -
               - IT'S ALL CITIZEN KANE!
     
     And in a screaming, bellowing fury, Welles tears apart the room.
     
     In a scene sharply reminiscent of Kane destroying Susan's bedroom, 
     Welles rampages around the room, upsetting tables and smashing 
     everything in reach.
     
     Welles finally grabs a flaming can of sterno and flings it at Schaefer, 
     Schaefer knocks it away.
     
     Then Welles stands in spent exhaustion, panting. One of his hands is 
     bleeding.
     
     He looks at Schaefer. A pause. Then:
     
                              WELLES 
               Let . . . me . . . talk to them. . .
     
     New York ... The stockholders
     
     Give me one chance. And then you will never have to see me again.
     
     INT.   GIMBELS NEW YORK  DAY 
     
     The entire two-acre fifth floor of Gimbels is in chaos
     
     A large banner is suspended at one end of the floor; "The Hearst 
     Collection." It is the first day of the sale and it is mobbed.
     
     Hearst and Marion, alone in a crowd, walk wordlessly through the 
     mayhem.
     
     Everywhere around them hundreds of eager customers strike like hawks, 
     snatching up useless junk and treasured antiques.
     
     We see bits and pieces of San Simeon in the jumble
     
     They pass a man and his wife, holding up Marion's -BLESS THIS CASTLE" 
     sampler:
     
                              MAN 
               Old man Hearst owned this and I'm getting it for 
               two bits I
     
     Hearst and Marion continue to walk, finally arriving at the section 
     containing the true, expensive treasures.
     
     Hearst watches as customers pick up and fondle his life.
     
     He glances at a framed front page of the San Francisco Examiner. The 
     date is March 4, 1887. In a large box on the page is: "IT IS THE ROLE 
     OF THE PRESS TO COMFORT THE AFFLICTED AND AFFLICT THE 
COMFORTABLE. 
     WILLIAM RANDOLPH HEARST. PUBLISHER."
     
                              HEARST 
               I can't sell this. How much are they asking?
     
                              MARION 
                  (gently)
               Pops ... let it go. Just ... let it go
     
     He looks at her. A long moment. He tenderly touches her face.
     
     Then: 
     
                              HEARST 
               Yes, I think I shall.
     
     He takes her hand and leads her away as we pull up and take in the 
     entire fifth floor.
     
     It is a stunning KANE-like image of rows and rows of merchandise piled 
     high. Of junk and jewels. Of Charles Foster Kane and William Randolph 
     Hearst.
     
     INT HOTEL ROOM. NEW YORK NIGHT
     
     Welles sits brooding in his hotel room. His invincible energy appears 
     gone.
     
     He is deep in thought, listlessly shuffling and reshuffling a deck of 
     cards in one hand.
     
     He aimlessly shuffles through the cards and plucks one out.
     
                              WELLES 
               Six of spades
     
     He glances at the card. It is the nine of hearts.
     
     He shuffles through the cards again and pulls out another card.
     
                              WELLES 
               Six of spades
     
     He looks at the card. It is the two of clubs.
     
     His attention is now fully on the cards. He shuffles them dramatically 
     and snatches out a card. He looks at it and then tosses it away. He 
     shuffles again, working the trick, again it fails. He tosses another 
     card away. He continues, ;' more quickly, to attempt the trick. It 
     fails again. And ' again.
     
     With a frightened moan Welles flings the entire deck away from him and 
     bolts out of the room...
     
     EXT HOTEL ROOFTOP NIGHT 
     
     Welles emerges from a stairway on the roof of his hotel.
     
     He marches to the edge of the roof and leans against a railing, gasping 
     for air.
     
     Everywhere below him the shimmering lights of Manhattan twinkle and 
     flash; cabs and neon and noise. The night sky above him is filled with 
     stars.
     
     He looks away from the city and up to the stars -- they captivate him 
     fully. He stares and stares at the impossible chaos of beautiful 
     lights.
     
     A long moment as Welles gazes at the stars. The city below and the 
     noise seem to disappear and Welles stands, safe and at peace under the 
     silent dome of stars.
     
     The stars are reflected in his huge, dark eyes
     
     Magically, the stars in his eyes give way to the vague shapes of men 
     sitting around a table.
     
     Welles looks at the men.
     
                              WELLES 
               Today.
     
     We pull back to see we are at 
     
     INT RKO BOARD ROOM. NEW YORK DAY 
     
     Welles stands at the head of a long conference table. Title: APRIL 6, 
     1941
     
     Around the table are gathered a group of stern businessmen Schaefer is 
     also present.
     
     Welles looks at the men. And he speaks. For once, his usual 
     overwrought, theatrical tones are gone.
     
     He speaks simply.
     
                              WELLES 
               Today a man from Germany invaded Greece. He has 
               already swallowed Poland and Denmark and Norway and 
               Belgium. He is bombing London as I speak. Everywhere 
               this man goes he crushes the life and the freedom of 
               his subjects. He sews yellow stars onto their 
               lapels. He takes their voices.
     
     In this country we still have our voices. And we can sing with them. 
     And we can argue with them. And we can be heard. Because we are . . . 
     for the moment . . . free. No one can tell us what to say or how to say 
     it, can they? We have no brown shirt thugs here ruling our lives, do 
     we? No one can take our voices, can they? Because we are free.
     
     I am one voice and that is all. My picture is one voice. Men are dying 
     in Europe now -- and Americans soon will be -- so that we can surmount 
     the tyrants and the dictators. Will you send a message across this 
     country that one man can take away our voices?
     
     So ... who is Mr. Hearst and who is Mr. Welles? Mr. Hearst built a 
     palace of brick and mortar and starting little wars and corpses piled 
     high. I built a palace of illusion. My castle Xanadu is a matte 
     painting and camera trick. It's nothing but . . . a dream.
     
     Today you have a chance to let the dream triumph. For once.
     
     He gazes at them and then slowly walks out of the room 
     
     INT LONG HALLWAY. NEW YORK DAY
     
     Welles sits quietly on a bench in a long hallway in a tall building.
     
     Schaefer emerges from an office and goes to him. He sits next to him.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               We open on May 1st.
     
     Welles slowly nods.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Orson, what you said in there. Did you mean it?
     
     Welles looks at him.
     
                              WELLES 
               Does it matter? They believed it
     
     He stands and begins walking away.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Orson.
     
     Welles stops, not turning.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Yes. It matters.
     
     Welles continues down the hall 
     
     INT HOTEL. NEW YORK NIGHT 
     
     Title: APRIL 30, 1941 Welles is rushing to catch an elevator as the 
     doors close
     
     He nips in at the last minute and punches his button. He turns.
     
     The elevator is deserted but for one other person: William Randolph 
     Hearst.
     
     Welles and Hearst recognize each other instantly. As the elevator 
     ascends the two men look at each other.
     
     A very long pause as we watch their faces -- the young man and the old 
     man -- both men of mad grandeur and malevolent passion and stunning 
     inspiration -- both men of incalculable achievement and measureless 
     poignancy.
     
     Finally:
     
                              WELLES 
               Mr. Hearst, we've met once before, my name is Orson 
               Welles and I've got a movie opening tomorrow night 
               at the Palace. I would be pleased to get you 
               tickets.
     
     A pause as Hearst regards Welles.
     
     Then Hearst carefully reaches over and presses the stop button on the 
     elevator. The elevator stops.
     
     An exceedingly quiet exchange:
     
     A beat.
     
     A pause.
     
                              HEARST 
               I wonder. Do you have any idea what you have done?
     
                              WELLES
               Do you?
     
                              HEARST 
               Intimately. For every sin you have placed on my 
               head I could give you a hundred others. I have been 
               swimming in blood my entire life. But I retain a 
               belief, perhaps you will think it old fashioned, 
               undoubtedly you will, but I believe that private 
               lives should not be public property.
     
                              WELLES 
               Elegant words, sir, when you have made your name 
               and your fortune on slander and innuendo and gossip. 
               In your papers you taught the world how to look 
               under every rock. I learned at the knee of the 
               master.
     
                              HEARST 
               So where does that leave us, Mr. Welles? What kind 
               of sad future are we two making? A future where men 
               will do anything to sell their newspapers and their 
               movies? A future where no price is too high for fame 
               and power? When we will all scratch each other to 
               pieces just to be heard?
     
     Can you truly envision such ... horror.
     
     Hearst presses the stop button again and the elevator begins to move.
     
     The doors opens on Hearst's floor and he leaves the elevator.
     
     The doors are about to shut on Welles when he leans forward; and roars: 
     
     
                              WELLES 
               CHARLES FOSTER KANE WOULD HAVE ACCEPTED I
     
     The doors shut on Welles and we remain with Hearst as he slowly walks 
     down the long hotel hallway.
     
     He walks with dignity. 
     
     EXT PALACE THEATER. NEW YORK NIGHT 
     
     It is the premiere of CITIZEN KANE, at last.
     
     The Palace Theater swarms with tuxedos and dress gowns as the elite of 
     New York and Hollywood descend from limousines and slowly parade into 
     the packed lobby.
     
     On the Palace marquee "ORSON WELLES" is spelled out in enormous six 
     foot tall electric letters. Below that is "CITIZEN KANE" also in 
     electric letters. Above the marquee is a series of towering, flashing 
     neon Charles Foster Kanes and the words "IT'S TERRIFIC."
     
     Title; MAY l, 1941
     
     We float down and enter the crowded lobby with the patrons...
     
     INT PALACE THEATER. LOBBY FOLLOWING
     
     We swirl with the throng of patrons in the lobby as they file into the 
     theater and finally find Welles and Schaefer huddled together nervously 
     in a corner of the lobby.
     
     They are studiously ignored and snubbed by all the movie people 
     filtering past.
     

                              SCHAEFER 
               They're cutting us dead, every goddamn one.
     
     They are ignored by a few more people
     
     Beat
     
                              WELLES 
               It's my birthday this week. I'll be 26.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Happy birthday.
     
     Mank fights through the crowd
     
                              MANK 
               Monstro! Ran into Walter Winchell outside He wants 
               to play Herod in the picture. Hiya, George.
     
                              SCHAEFER
               Herman.
     
                              MANK 
                  (lighting a cigar)
               So ain't this just the bee's knees? The high 
               muckey-mucks dolled up all Aztec-like for the human 
               sacrifice.
     
                              WELLES 
               You gonna watch?
     
                              MANK 
               Hell, I know how it ends.
                  (He calls to a passing stranger)
               Hey, Rosebud's the sled!
     
                              WELLES
               Mank!
     
                              MANK 
               Face it, Orson, they're gonna hate it. I told you, 
               not enough closeups and too many scenes with a bunch 
               of New York actors.
     
                              SCHAEFER 
                  (pained)
               Oh God. . .
     
                              WELLES 
               Relax, George. It's gonna go great. Trust me. Have 
               I ever lied to you?
     
     Schaefer looks at him for a moment
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               You know something, Orson, you haven't done 
               anything but lie to me from the moment we met. But, 
               ya know, I'd do it again in a second.
     
                              WELLES 
               It was fun, wasn't it?
     
                              SCHAEFER 
                  (quietly)
               It was the best, kid
     
                              WELLES 
               So, on to the Life Of Christ!
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Without me. I'm afraid. I got the axe this morning.
     
                              MANK
               Shit
     
                              WELLES
               George...
     
                              SCHAEFER 
               Forget it. Cause you know something..
     
     When I'm an old coot playing dominoes down in Miami Beach fifty years 
     from now, I'll say, "Hey, you kids ever heard of a guy named Randolph 
     Hearst?" And they'll say, "Nope. Never heard of him." And then I'll 
     say, "Hey, you ever heard of a picture called CITIZEN KANE?"  And they 
     will have. That's enough for me.
     
     Pats Welles arm and goes into the theater
     
                              WELLES 
                  (softly)
               What have I done?
     
                              MANK 
               Aw, cheer up, George'll probably be running Fox by 
               the morning. Let's get a drink.
     
     Mank pulls at Welles' arm.
     
                              WELLES 
               But the picture...
     
     Mank stops and looks at him deeply.
     
                              MANK 
                  (quietly)
               Kid, you know how it ends too. It ends sadly.
     
     He pulls Welles away from the theater and down the street. 
     
     INT. PALACE THEATER - NIGHT
     
     We watch the faces
     
     In the flickering blue light we watch the audience as we hear Bernard 
     Hermann's evocative and haunting opening music to CITIZEN KANE.
     
     We slowly move across a sea of faces as the music plays. For everyone, 
     especially the movie people, what they are seeing is a revelation and a 
     revolution. It is a whole new way of seeing the world.
     
     We see their amazement as they are mesmerized -- and their confusion as 
     they are challenged.
     
     And we see George Schaefer, quietly proud.
     
     Bernard Hermann's opening music continues to play until we finally 
     hear;
     
                              "KANE" 
               "Rosebud...
     
     And the world of movies is forever changed 
     
     INT   DESERTED BAR. NEW YORK  NIGHT 
     
     Welles and Mank are sitting in a rundown, deserted bar
     
                              WELLES 
               You know, all this nightmare we went through with 
               Hearst. The whole thing... And in the end, probably 
               no one will ever remember the picture anyway.
     
                              MANK 
               Yeah, you're probably right.
     
     A beat. Mank takes a drink.
     
                              MANK 
               I'll tell ya something, kid. When you make your 
               masterpiece at 26 it's a bitch. I mean. where do you 
               go from here?
     
     A long pause
     
     Then Welles speaks, softly.
     
                              WELLES 
               Will burn. Burn up. Burn out.  But oh, what a flame
     
     He looks at Mank and toasts.
     
                              WELLES 
               Cheers.
     
     And Orson Welles smiles. Indomitable.
     
     THE END.

