In a Polish shtetl in the early 20th century, a Jewish man tells his wife that he was helped on his way home by Traitle Groshkover, whom he has invited in for soup.
She objects, saying Groshkover is dead, and that the visitor must be a dybbuk.
Groshkover (Fyvush Finkel) arrives and laughs off the accusation, but she plunges an icepick into his chest.
Bleeding, he exits into the snowy night.

In Minnesota in 1967,[3] Larry Gopnik (Michael Stuhlbarg) is a professor of physics whose wife, Judith (Sari Lennick), abruptly informs him that she needs a get (a Jewish divorce document) so she can marry widower Sy Ableman (Fred Melamed).

Three other people live with Larry and Judith.
Their son Danny (Aaron Wolff) owes twenty dollars for marijuana to an intimidating Hebrew school classmate, but the bill is hidden in a transistor radio since confiscated by his teacher.
Daughter Sarah is always washing her hair.
Larry's brother, Arthur (Richard Kind), sleeps on the couch and spends his free time filling a notebook with what he calls "a probability map of the universe".

Larry faces an impending vote on his application for tenure, and his department head (Ari Hoptman) lets slip that anonymous letters have urged the committee to deny him.
Clive Park, a student worried about losing his scholarship, meets with Larry in his office to argue he should not fail the class.
After he leaves, Larry finds an envelope stuffed with cash.
When Larry attempts to return it, Clive's father comes to his house to threaten to sue Larry either for defamation if Larry accuses Clive of bribery, or for keeping the money if he does not give him a passing grade.

At the insistence of Judith and Sy, Larry and Arthur move into a nearby motel.
Judith has emptied the couple's bank accounts, leaving Larry penniless, so he enlists the services of a sympathetic divorce attorney (Adam Arkin).
Larry learns Arthur faces charges of solicitation and sodomy, despite his previous attendance at "mixers".

To cope with his streak of unfortunate circumstances, Larry turns to his Jewish faith.
The two rabbis he consults (Simon Helberg and George Wyner) are by turns obtuse, oblivious and obscure, and his synagogue's senior rabbi is never available.
Larry's mental state reaches a breaking point when he and Sy are involved in seemingly simultaneous, but separate, car crashes.
Larry is unharmed, but Sy is killed.
At Judith's insistence, Larry pays for Sy's funeral.

Larry is proud and moved by Danny's bar mitzvah, unaware of his son's distractions from nerves and marijuana.
During the service, Judith apologizes to Larry for all the recent trouble and informs him that Sy liked him so much that he even wrote letters to the tenure committee.
Danny meets with the senior rabbi in his office, where the old man – who has had Danny's transistor radio in his desk – quotes almost verbatim from the Jefferson Airplane song "Somebody to Love".
He returns the radio and counsels Danny to "be a good boy".

Larry's department head compliments him on Danny's bar mitzvah and hints that he will win tenure.
Receiving a large bill from Arthur's criminal lawyer, Larry decides to pass Clive, whereupon Larry's doctor calls, asking to see him immediately about the results of a chest X-ray; at the same moment, Danny's teacher struggles to open the emergency shelter as a massive tornado bears down on the school.