Batman and Robin attempt to stop a new villain called Mr.
Freeze from stealing a cache of diamonds.
The supervillain freezes Robin and flees, leaving Batman to thaw his partner.
They learn that Freeze was once scientist Victor Fries, who became dependent on a diamond-powered subzero suit following an accident in a cryogenics lab he was occupying to find a cure for his wife, Nora, who was suffering from a terminal illness called MacGregor's Syndrome.

Meanwhile, botanist Dr. Pamela Isley is experimenting with the strength serum "Venom" to create mutant plants capable of fighting back against mankind's destruction of flora.
She is furious to learn that her senior colleague Dr. Jason Woodrue used her Venom samples to transform a diminutive prisoner into the "super soldier" Bane.
When she refuses to become the mad scientist's partner, Woodrue tries to kill her with animal-plant toxins and chemicals, which instead transform her into the stunning but deadly Poison Ivy.
She kills Woodrue with a venomous kiss before vowing to use her new powers to establish botanical supremacy over the world.

Alfred Pennyworth's niece Barbara Wilson makes a surprise visit from England and is invited to stay at Wayne Manor until she returns to university.
Alfred is revealed to be suffering from MacGregor's Syndrome.

Isley arrives in Gotham City with Bane as her henchman.
She interrupts a Wayne Enterprises press conference at the Gotham Observatory, exhorting Bruce Wayne to implement a proposal that would safeguard the natural environment at the expense of millions of human lives, which Bruce summarily dismisses.
As Poison Ivy, she appears at the Gotham Botanical Gardens fundraiser, seducing everyone present with her pheromone dust, including the Dynamic Duo, who are there to protect a diamond on auction from Mr.
Freeze.
When Freeze crashes the event as expected, Ivy is instantly captivated by his "ruthless charm".
Although he proves immune to her love dust, she breaks him free from Arkham Asylum after Batman captures and puts him there.

Ivy then proceeds to turn off Nora Fries' life support and makes Mr.
Freeze believe Batman did it, thereby persuading him that he can take his revenge if he becomes her partner in crime.
They plan to turn the observatory's new telescope into a giant freezing gun in order to freeze the whole world's population to death and replace them with Ivy's mutant plants.

Meanwhile, Robin has become infatuated with Ivy and rebels against Batman, just as the villainess planned.
He eventually goes to meet her at her garden hide-out.
Ivy's venomous kiss fails to kill Robin because Batman had prevailed on him to coat his lips with rubber.
She throws Robin into her lily pond and entangles Batman in her vines, although they are able to free themselves when the mysterious Batgirl arrives and traps Ivy in her own floral throne.
Batgirl turns out to be Barbara, who had discovered the Batcave and decided to create her own crime-fighting persona with help from Alfred.

When the Trio arrive at the Observatory to stop Freeze, the villain has already turned Gotham into an ice cube.
Bane attacks Robin and Batgirl, but they incapacitate him and restore him to his original human state.
The two younger heroes save Gotham by repositioning the observatory's satellites, using their mirrors to reflect sunlight from outer space to thaw the city.

Batman shows Freeze video footage of Ivy gloating to Batgirl about pulling the plug on Nora, and reveals to Freeze that his wife is still alive.
He promises that Freeze will be allowed to continue his research at Arkham Asylum to heal Nora.
Batman asks Freeze for the cure he created for the first stage of MacGregor's Syndrome for Alfred.
Freeze atones for his misdeeds by giving him two vials of the medicine he had developed.
Ivy, meanwhile, is locked up in Arkham, with a vengeful Freeze as her cell mate.

Back at Wayne Manor, Alfred is cured, and Bruce invites Barbara to live with them and continue helping him and Dick fight crime as Batgirl.