After a title sequence which features disembodied lips singing "Science Fiction Double Feature", a criminologist (Charles Gray) narrates the tale of the newly engaged couple Brad Majors (Barry Bostwick) and Janet Weiss (Susan Sarandon) ("Dammit Janet") who find themselves lost and with a flat tire on a cold and rainy late evening.
Seeking a telephone, the couple walk to a nearby castle ("There's a Light (Over at the Frankenstein Place)") where they discover a group of strange and outlandish people who are holding an Annual Transylvanian Convention ("Time Warp").
They are soon swept into the world of Dr. Frank N. Furter (Tim Curry), a self-proclaimed transvestite from Transsexual, Transylvania.
("Sweet Transvestite") The ensemble of convention attendees also includes servants Riff Raff (Richard O'Brien), his sister Magenta (Patricia Quinn), and a groupie named Columbia (Nell Campbell).

In his lab, Frank claims to have discovered the "secret to life itself".
His creation, Rocky (Peter Hinwood), is brought to life ("The Sword of Damocles").
The ensuing celebration ("I Can Make You a Man") is soon interrupted by Eddie (Meat Loaf), an ex-delivery boy, partial brain donor to Rocky, and Columbia's lover, who rides out of a deep freeze on a motorcycle ("Hot Patootie (Bless My Soul)").
In a jealous rage, Frank corners him and kills him with an ice axe.
He then departs with Rocky to a bridal suite ("I Can Make You a Man" reprise).

Brad and Janet are shown to separate bedrooms where each is visited and seduced by Frank, who poses as Brad (when visiting Janet) and then as Janet (when visiting Brad).
Janet, upset and emotional, wanders off to look for Brad, whom she discovers, via a television monitor, is in bed with Frank.
She then discovers Rocky, cowering in his birth tank, hiding from Riff Raff, who has been tormenting him.
While tending to his wounds, Janet becomes intimate with Rocky, as Magenta and Columbia watch from their bedroom monitor ("Touch-a, Touch-a, Touch-a, Touch Me").

After discovering that his creation is missing, Frank returns to the lab with Brad and Riff Raff, where Frank learns that an intruder has entered the building.
Dr. Everett Scott (Jonathan Adams), Brad and Janet's old high school science teacher, has come looking for his nephew, Eddie, but Frank suspects that Dr. Scott investigates UFOs for the government.
Upon learning of Brad and Janet's connection to Dr. Scott, Frank suspects them of working for him.
Frank, Dr. Scott, Brad, and Riff Raff then discover Janet and Rocky together under the sheets in Rocky's birth tank, upsetting Frank and Brad.
After much hemming and hawing, Magenta interrupts the hubbub by sounding a massive gong and stating that dinner is prepared.

Rocky and the guests are served dinner ("Eddie"), which they soon realize has been prepared from Eddie's mutilated body.
Janet runs screaming into Rocky's arms and is slapped and chased through the halls of the castle by a jealous Frank ("Planet Schmanet Janet (Wise Up Janet Weiss)").
Janet, Brad, Dr. Scott, Rocky, and Columbia all meet in Frank's lab, where Frank captures them with the Medusa Transducer, transforming them into statues.
They are then forced to perform a live cabaret floor show with Frank as the leader ("Rose Tint My World"/"Don't Dream It, Be It"/"Wild and Untamed Thing").

Riff Raff and Magenta interrupt the performance, revealing themselves and Frank to be aliens from the planet Transsexual in the galaxy of Transylvania.
They stage a coup and announce a plan to return to their home world.
In the process, they kill Columbia, Rocky and Frank, who has "failed his mission".
They release Brad, Janet, and Dr. Scott, then depart by lifting off in the castle itself.
The survivors are then left crawling in the dirt ("Super Heroes"), and the narrator concludes that the human race is equivalent to insects crawling on the planet's surface.

As the credits start to roll, the voice of the lips from the beginning of the film sings about the fate of the characters ("Science Fiction/Double Feature" reprise).