Homer Wells, an orphan, grew up in an orphanage directed by Dr. Wilbur Larch after being returned twice by foster parents; his first foster parents thought he was too quiet and the second parents beat him.
Dr. Larch is addicted to ether and is also secretly an abortionist.
Larch trains Homer in obstetrics and abortions as an apprentice, despite Homer never even having attended high school.
Homer disapproves of abortions though, and although he has been trained by Larch in the field, he refuses to perform them.

The film continues as Homer decides to leave the orphanage with Candy Kendall and her boyfriend, Wally Worthington, a young couple who work at the Worthington family apple orchard and came to the clinic to have an abortion.
Wally leaves to fight in World War II.
While Wally is away, Homer and Candy have an affair over the course of the film.
While he is away from the orphanage, Homer lives on the Worthington estate.
He goes to work picking apples with Arthur Rose's team.
Arthur and his team are migrant workers who are employed seasonally at the orchard by the Worthingtons.
Homer and Candy become much closer during this period of harvest and spend more time together, while Wally is in Burma fighting.

After the Arthur Rose and his team come back to work the orchard in the following season it comes to light that he has raped and impregnates his own daughter, Rose Rose, who confides in Candy about this, she then tells Homer only after he just finds out that she is pregnant and is having morning sickness.
Homer decides he must help Rose because she is about to run away and Arthur is trying to stop Rose from leaving in the middle of the night; Homer offers to help as a doctor only can.
Later, when Rose Rose tries to run away, her father notices and goes to say goodbye, Rose stabs him and flees.
As a last request, the dying Arthur asks the other workers to tell the police that his death was a suicide.
Eventually, Homer decides to return to the orphanage after Dr. Larch's death from an accidental ether overdose, and works as the new director.

At the end of the film, Homer learns that Larch had faked Homer's medical record to keep him out of the war, and later made fake credentials for Homer in order to convince the board overseeing the orphanage to appoint him as the next director.
Finally, Homer fills the paternal role that Larch previously held for the children of the orphanage.

The title is from the list of rules in the house used by the itinerant fruit pickers.
They observe that the rules of the house have been made without the occupants' consent by people who do not live their lives, and so do not face their problems.
Consequently they feel that they can ignore these rules.