Forty-somethings Adam Yates, Nick Webber and Lou Dorchen have been friends since they were teenagers, and even though they have each other's contact information, they, as adults, don't like to associate with each other now, and often ignore especially Lou's attempts to keep in touch.
Their lives haven't turned out very well.
Adam, who wants to be in love, has just been acrimoniously dumped by the latest in a long string of girlfriends.
His twenty-three year old nephew, Jacob, lives in his basement since Jacob's single mother, Adam's sister Kelly, is a deadbeat.
Nick once had a promising musical career, but gave that up for his wife Courtney, who rules the family.
Nick now works in a dead end job in a doggie spa.
And Lou lives a reckless life as an overgrown adolescent.
Because of an accident which almost takes Lou's life - which the authorities believe was an attempted suicide despite Lou's denials - Adam, Nick and Jacob decide to treat Lou to a vacation weekend to Kodiak Valley, a ski resort the three friends often frequented during happier times in their life.
The resort has seen better days.
But they're happy that they manage to get the same hotel room they had twenty-four years earlier during Winterfest '86.
After taking a dip in the hot tub in their room, they miraculously awaken back to that Winterfest with all the knowledge of their adult lives.
The one person who seems to know what's going on is the hot tub maintenance man, who implies that they have to recreate their lives on that 1986 Winterfest vacation so as not to upset the future before they can be sent forward to the present.
That premonition is most important to Jacob, who believes that any change to their structure will result in him not being born.
But Adam, Nick and Lou have problems adhering to many of the less pleasant incidents of that vacation.
But if adhering to what they did in 1986 won't change the future, they may come to the realization that making certain changes may result in a better life for themselves than the first time around, the consequences be damned.