Brian Cohen is born in a stable a few doors from the one in which Jesus is born, which initially confuses the three wise men who come to praise the future King of the Jews.
Brian grows up an idealistic young man who resents the continuing Roman occupation of Judea.
While attending Jesus's Sermon on the Mount, Brian becomes infatuated with an attractive young rebel, Judith.
His desire for her and hatred for the Romans lead him to join the People's Front of Judea (PFJ), one of many fractious and bickering independence movements, who spend more time fighting each other than the Romans.

After several misadventures, and escaping from Pontius Pilate, the fugitive winds up in a line-up of would-be mystics and prophets who harangue the passing crowd in a plaza.
Forced to come up with something plausible in order to blend in and keep the guards off his back, Brian babbles pseudo-religious truisms, and quickly attracts a small but intrigued audience.
Once the guards have left, Brian tries to put the episode behind him, but he has unintentionally inspired a movement.
He grows frantic when he finds that some people have started to follow him around, with even the slightest unusual occurrence being hailed as a "miracle".
After slipping away from the mob, Brian runs into Judith, and they spend the night together.
In the morning, Brian opens the curtains to discover an enormous crowd of people outside his mother's house, all proclaiming him to be the Messiah.
Brian's mother protests: "He's not the Messiah, he's a very naughty boy".
Brian finds himself unable to change their minds, because his every word and action are immediately seized as points of doctrine.

The hapless Brian finds no solace at the PFJ's headquarters, where people fling their afflicted bodies at him demanding miracle cures.
After sneaking out the back, Brian finally is captured and scheduled to be crucified.
Meanwhile, a huge crowd has assembled outside the palace.
Pilate (together with the visiting Biggus Dickus) tries to quell the feeling of revolution by granting them the decision of who should be pardoned.
The crowd, however, simply shouts out names containing the letter "r", in order to mock Pilate's speech impediment.
Eventually, Judith appears in the crowd and calls for the release of Brian, which the crowd echoes, since the name contains the letter "r".
Pilate then agrees to "welease Bwian".

The order from Pilate is eventually relayed to the guards, but in a moment parodying the climax of the film Spartacus, various crucified people all claim to be "Brian of Nazareth" (one man shouting "I'm Brian and so's my wife") and the wrong man is released.
Various other opportunities for a reprieve for Brian are denied as, one by one, his "allies" (including Judith and his mother) step forward to explain why they are leaving the "noble freedom fighter" hanging in the hot sun.
Hope is renewed when a crack suicide squad from the Judean People's Front (not to be confused with the PFJ) come charging towards the Romans, but rather than fighting to release Brian they commit mass suicide as a political statement.
Condemned to a long and painful death, Brian finds his spirits lifted by his fellow sufferers, who break into song with "Always Look on the Bright Side of Life".
[6]