Childhood friends Dan Walker (Kevin Zegers) and Joe Lynch (Shawn Ashmore) along with Dan's girlfriend Parker O'Neill (Emma Bell) spend a Sunday afternoon at a New England ski resort on Mount Holliston.
The guys are eager to take one last run down the mountain before they go home.
However, the ski resort decides to close early because a storm is moving in.

The friends convince the ski lift attendant to let them on one last time.
Before the group gets all the way to the top, the attendant is called into the boss's office and is replaced by a co-worker.
As he leaves, he tells the co-worker that there are only three skiers left.
Another set of three skiers comes down the mountain.
When he sees them, he shuts down the ski lift stranding the three central characters in their ski lift chair far above the ground.

Parker, knows the ski slopes have closed for the week.
Dan realizes he has no choice but to jump from the ski lift chair and get help, as they will not survive up there in the bitter cold until Friday.

Dan jumps off the lift and suffers a compound fracture in both of his legs.
Later on, he is approached by a wolf.
Joe, now fearing for Dan's safety, decides to try and get to the ground by traversing the cable.
However, he returns to his chair because Dan has now been surrounded by a pack of wolves who attack and devour him.

After a few hours, Joe traverses the ski lift cable, and this time safely climbs down the ladder of a support pole.
After fighting off a pair of wolves by using a ski pole, Joe slides down the mountain on Parker's snowboard, planning to return with help for her; the wolves chase after him.

Parker begins to try and jump down herself, but is injured after the lift chair falls on her ankle.
She then slides and crawls down the mountain, pausing when she sees a streak of blood in the snow.
Parker sees that the wolf pack has caught and killed Joe.
Parker makes it the rest of the way down the mountain to a nearby road.
Eventually a car appears and the driver stops to assist her.
The film ends with Parker's eyes closing as she hears the driver telling her in Dan's voice, "It's going to be okay, baby.
It's going to be okay."