Joe Moore runs a ring of professional thieves, which includes Bobby Blane, Don "Pinky" Pincus and Joe's wife Fran.
During a daylight robbery of a New York City jewelry store, Joe's face is captured by a security camera.
As both the picture and a witness can identify him, Joe chooses to retire from crime and plans to disappear on his sail boat with his wife, living off their share of the heist.

This does not sit well with Joe's fence, Mickey Bergman, who runs a garment business as a front.
After accruing a number of expenses in setting up another, much more complicated robbery, Bergman decides to withhold the payment due to Joe and his crew.
He insists they go through with the other job — robbing an airplane carrying a large shipment of gold.
Bergman further insists that his hot-headed nephew, Jimmy Silk, be a part of the crew.

Joe reluctantly accepts, but a series of shifting loyalties changes the complexity of their task.
That includes Jimmy's personal interest in Joe's wife and Bergman and Jimmy's belief that Joe's skills are declining.

The plane robbery is set up as a series of misdirections.
Pinky poses as a guard while Joe, Bobby, and Jimmy pose as airport security personnel.
They stop the jet, pretending to be responding to an emergency.
They fill a van with what they take from the plane, then move the van to a rented garage on the airport grounds, where they re-brand it and call for a tow truck to have it hauled away.

Jimmy betrays the others in a bid to steal both the gold and Fran.
He knocks out Joe after everyone else has left, then tells Fran that he had known that Joe had changed the plan.
He and Fran take the van, but Jimmy finds out that, instead of bars of gold, the hidden compartments are filled with metal washers.

Joe avoids arrest and returns to the plane in disguise.
He and Bobby remove a shipment of goods they had booked on board the same Swiss flight, which they insist now must be driven to its destination due to the plane's delay.
Inside the shipment is the stolen gold, which Joe and Bobby then melt and mold into long rods.

A furious Bergman apprehends Pinky, who is walking his niece to the school bus.
Pinky discloses the plan in order to save his niece.
Bergman and his crew arrive at Joe's sail boat along with Jimmy and Fran, where they hold Joe at gunpoint, demanding to know: "Where's the gold?"

They notice that the boat railings are golden.
Fran leaves with Jimmy, pleading with Bergman to give Joe some money and let him go.
Bergman checks the railings, which turn out to be painted.
Bergman counts to three, preparing to shoot Joe, when a hidden Bobby opens fire.
Bergman's men are killed and Bergman is wounded.
He asks Joe, "Don't you want to hear my last words?"
Joe replies, "I just did," and shoots him.

Bobby gives Joe the address to which he should send his share.
Joe waits to meet Fran with a new truck filled with black-painted rods.
Fran shows up with Jimmy.
They take the truck and the gold, Fran telling Joe: "You're the one who sent me to him.
You shouldn't have sent me to him."

Joe gets into an older truck to leave.
A black bar in the truck scrapes the garage door, revealing gold underneath.
Joe lifts a tarp in the truck bed, revealing the gold rods concealed under it.
He covers the rods with the tarpaulin and drives away.