David (Maguire) and his twin sister Jennifer (Witherspoon) lead different high-school social lives.
Jennifer is shallow and extroverted; David is introverted and spends most of his time watching television.
One evening while their mother (Kaczmarek) is away, they fight over the TV.
Jennifer wants to watch a concert on MTV, but David wants to watch a marathon of Pleasantville, a black and white 1958 sitcom about the idyllic Parker family.
During the fight, the remote control breaks, and the TV cannot be turned on manually.

A mysterious TV repairman shows up, quizzes David about Pleasantville, then gives him a strange remote control.
The repairman leaves, and David and Jennifer resume fighting.
However, they are transported into the Parkers' black and white Pleasantville living room.
David tries to reason with the repairman (with whom he communicates through the Parkers' television), but he succeeds only in chasing him away.
David and Jennifer must now pretend they are Bud and Mary Sue Parker, the son and daughter on the show.

David and Jennifer witness the wholesome nature of the town, such as a group of firemen rescuing a cat from a tree.
David tells Jennifer they must stay in character and not disrupt the lives of the town's citizens, who do not notice any difference between Bud and Mary Sue, and David and Jennifer.
To keep the show's plot, Jennifer dates a boy from high school but has sex with him, a concept unknown to him and everyone else in town.

Slowly, Pleasantville begins changing from black and white to color, including flowers and the faces of people who have experienced bursts of emotion.
David introduces Mr. Johnson (Daniels), owner of the cheeseburger joint/soda fountain where Bud works, to colorful modern art via a book from the library, sparking in him an interest in painting.
Johnson and Betty Parker (Allen) fall in love, causing her to leave home, throwing George Parker (Macy), Bud and Mary Sue's father, into confusion.
The only people who remain unchanged are the town fathers, led by the mayor, Big Bob (Walsh), who sees the changes eating at the values of Pleasantville.
They resolve to do something about their increasingly independent wives and rebellious children.

As the townsfolk become more colorful, a ban on "colored" people is initiated in public venues.
Eventually, a riot is touched off by a nude painting of Betty (painted by Johnson) on the window of Mr. Johnson's soda fountain.
The soda fountain is destroyed, books are burned, and people who are "colored" are harassed in the street.
As a reaction, the town fathers announce rules preventing people from visiting the library, playing loud music, or using paint other than black, white, or gray.
In protest, David and Mr. Johnson paint a colorful mural on a brick wall, depicting their world, prompting their arrest.
Brought to trial in front of the town, David and Mr. Johnson defend their actions, arousing enough anger and indignation in Big Bob that the mayor becomes colored as well.

Having seen Pleasantville change irrevocably, Jennifer stays to finish her education, but David uses the remote control to return to the real world.