In the winter of 1987, Minneapolis automobile salesman Jerry Lundegaard is in financial trouble.
Jerry is introduced to criminals Carl Showalter and Gaear Grimsrud by American Indian ex-convict Shep Proudfoot, a mechanic at his dealership.
Jerry travels to Fargo, North Dakota and hires the two men to kidnap his wife Jean in exchange for a new 1987 Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera and half of the $80,000 ransom.
However, Jerry intends to tell his wealthy father-in-law Wade Gustafson that the ransom demand is $1,000,000 and keep most of the money for himself.

GMAC has been threatening to recall loans made for cars at the dealership Jerry manages after discovering accounting irregularities.
Jerry has been trying to raise money by promoting a real estate deal to Wade.
Jerry tries to call off the kidnapping after he thinks Wade has agreed to the investment, but he is too late.
As it turns out, Wade intends to buy the property himself and give Jerry only a finder's fee that is insufficient to pay off his debts.

Carl and Gaear kidnap Jean, but on their way through Brainerd, Minnesota, a Minnesota State Patrol officer stops them because the car lacks the required license plates and tags.
When Carl's attempt to bribe the trooper fails, Gaear kills the trooper.
As Carl is moving the trooper's body off the road, he is seen by a couple passing by in their car.
Gaear chases the couple, who lose control of their car and swerve off the road, enabling Gaear to kill them.

The deaths are investigated by local police chief Marge Gunderson, who is seven months pregnant.
She deduces the chain of events and follows the leads that arise, including interviewing two prostitutes who serviced the criminals at a motel.
After being informed that the criminals telephoned Shep Proudfoot from the motel, she drives to Minneapolis but acquires no information in interviews with Shep and Jerry.

Jerry contacts Wade, saying the kidnappers insist on dealing only with Jerry.
Wade accepts this arrangement at first, but later changes his mind.
When he meets with Carl at a parking garage, he refuses to give him the money until his daughter is returned.
Angered by his demands and unexpected appearance, Carl shoots Wade.
Before he dies, Wade shoots Carl in the face.
Jerry arrives at the scene just after Carl leaves, and sees the garage attendant shot dead.
Later, Carl discovers that the bag he took from Wade contains a million dollars.
He removes $80,000 to split with Gaear and buries the rest by the side of the highway.
At the hideout, Gaear kills Jean.
He later kills Carl with an axe after a dispute over the car in which Carl motions toward his sidearm.

Before leaving town Marge questions Jerry once again, asking him about the car used in the Brainerd murders.
When she asks to talk to Wade, Jerry storms out of the office after saying he will check the lot for the missing car.
Jerry flees instead, causing Marge to phone the state police to find and arrest him.
After following up on a tip, Marge drives to the lake and sees the kidnappers' car.
She arrives just in time to see Gaear feeding the last of Carl's body into a wood chipper.
Gaear tries to flee, but Marge shoots him in the leg and arrests him.
Jerry is later arrested in a motel outside of Bismarck, North Dakota.

In the last scene, Marge and her husband Norm sit in bed together discussing his artwork, which has been selected as the design for a postage stamp, although not the most popular denomination of stamp.