It is February 1929 in the city of Chicago.
Joe (Tony Curtis) is a jazz saxophone player, irresponsible gambler and ladies' man; his friend Jerry (Jack Lemmon) is a sensible jazz double-bass player.
Together they accidentally witness the Saint Valentine's Day Massacre.
When the gangsters, led by "Spats" Colombo (George Raft), spot them, the two have to run for their lives.

Penniless, freezing cold, and in a rush to get out of town, the two musicians take a job with Sweet Sue and her Society Syncopators, an all-female band headed to Miami.
Disguised as women and calling themselves Josephine and Daphne, they board a train with the band and their male manager, Bienstock.
Before they board the train, Joe and Jerry have already noticed Sugar Kane (Marilyn Monroe), the band's vocalist and ukulele player, marveling over how she walks "like Jell-O on springs", as they struggle along in their high heels not at all sure they will be able to pass as women.
As they board the train, however, Daphne (Jerry) experiences the kind of sexual harassment common to women when Bienstock feels "her" up.

Both Joe and Jerry become enamored of Sugar and compete for her affection while maintaining their disguises.
Sugar confides that she has sworn off male saxophone players, who have stolen her heart in the past and left her with "the fuzzy end of the lollipop".
She has now set her sights on finding a sweet, bespectacled millionaire in Florida.
During the forbidden drinking and partying on the train with all the women in the band, Josephine and Daphne become intimate friends with Sugar, and continually have to struggle to remember that they are girls and cannot make a pass at her.

Once in Miami, Joe woos Sugar by assuming a second disguise as a millionaire named Junior, the heir to Shell Oil, while mimicking Cary Grant's voice and feigning disinterest in Sugar.
An actual millionaire, an aging mama's boy, the much-married Osgood Fielding III (Joe E. Brown), tries repeatedly to pick up Daphne, who repeatedly rebuffs him.
One night Osgood invites Daphne for a champagne supper on his yacht.
Joe convinces Daphne to keep Osgood occupied onshore, so that Junior can take Sugar to Osgood's yacht, passing it off as his.
Once on the yacht, Junior uses metaphors to explain to Sugar that unfortunately, due to psychological trauma, he is impotent and frigid, but that he would certainly marry anyone who could change that.
Sugar tries desperately to arouse some sexual response in Junior, and begins to succeed.
Meanwhile, Daphne and Osgood dance the tango till dawn.

When Joe and Jerry get back to the hotel, Jerry happily explains that Osgood has proposed marriage to Daphne and that he, as Daphne, has accepted, anticipating an instant divorce and huge cash settlement when his ruse is revealed.
Joe finally convinces Jerry that he can't actually marry Osgood.
The two men realize they must quit the band and leave the hotel.
Sadly, Joe then breaks Sugar's heart by telling her that he, Junior, has to marry a woman of his father's choosing and move to Venezuela.

The hotel hosts a conference for "Friends of Italian Opera", who are actually mobsters.
Spats and his gang from Chicago recognize Joe and Jerry as the witnesses to the Valentine's Day murders.
After several humorous but potentially lethal chases, Joe and Jerry end up witnessing additional mob killings, this time of Spats and his crew.
Once again Joe and Jerry have to run for their lives.
Joe, dressed as Josephine, sees Sugar onstage singing sadly that she will never love again.
He kisses her before he leaves, and Sugar suddenly understands that Joe is both Josephine and Junior.

Sugar runs from the stage at the end of her performance and is able to jump into the launch from Osgood's yacht just as it is leaving the dock with Joe, Jerry, and Osgood in it.
Joe tells Sugar that he is not good enough for her, that she would be getting the "fuzzy end of the lollipop" yet again, but Sugar wants him anyway.
Jerry, for his part, comes up with a list of objections for why he and Osgood cannot get married, ranging from a smoking habit to infertility.
Osgood dismisses them all; he loves Daphne and is determined to go through with the marriage.
Exasperated, Jerry removes his wig and shouts, "I'm a man!"
Osgood simply responds, "Well, nobody's perfect."