A massive meteor shower destroys the Space Shuttle Atlantis and bombards New York City, America's East Coast, and Finland.
NASA discovers that a rogue comet the size of Texas passed through the asteroid belt and pushed forward a large amount of space debris.
The core of the comet, now considered an asteroid, will collide with Earth in 18 days, creating another extinction event.
NASA scientists, led by Dan Truman, plan to trigger a nuclear detonation 800 ft inside the asteroid that will split the asteroid in two, driving the pieces apart so both will fly safely past the Earth.
NASA contacts Harry Stamper, considered the best deep-sea oil driller in the world, for assistance and advice.
Harry returns to NASA, along with his teenage daughter Grace, to keep her away from her new boyfriend, one of Harry's young and rambunctious drillers, A. J.
Frost.
Harry and Grace learn about the asteroid, and Harry explains he will need his team, including A. J., to carry out the mission.
Once they have been rounded up and the situation is explained, they agree to help, but only after their list of unusual rewards and demands are met.

As NASA puts Harry and his crew through a short and rigorous astronaut training program, Harry and his team re-outfit the mobile drillers, named the "Armadillos", that will be used on the asteroid.
When a large fragment from the asteroid wipes out Shanghai, NASA is forced to reveal its plans to the world and launches two military space shuttles, named Freedom and Independence.
Once in orbit, the shuttles dock with the Russian space station Mir, manned by Lev Andropov, to refuel with liquid oxygen.
However, a major fire breaks out during the transfer, and the station is evacuated just before it explodes, with Lev and A. J. making a narrow escape.
The shuttles slingshot around the Moon in order to land on the back side of the asteroid.
The Independence's engines are destroyed when they pass through the debris field behind the asteroid, and it appears to crash on the asteroid with all hands lost, while the Freedom overshoots their target landing zone by 26 miles.
Grace, watching from NASA headquarters, is distraught about A.
J.
's apparent death.
Unknown to the others, A.J.
Lev, and "Bear" (another of Harry's crew) survive the impact and head towards the Freedom in their Armadillo.

The rock where Freedom landed is much harder than at the target zone, and drilling falls behind schedule.
The military initiates "Secondary Protocol" to remotely detonate the nuclear weapon on the asteroid's surface, despite Truman's assurance it would have no effect.
Truman alerts Harry, and he is able to get the shuttle commander's help to disarm the remote trigger.
Harry pushes his crew harder, but in the process, they hit a gas pocket, and their Armadillo is blown into space.
They consider the mission lost until the arrival of the Independence's Armadillo.
With A. J. at the controls, they quickly reach the required depth for the bomb.

The heat from the asteroid's approach to earth damages the triggering device, forcing someone to stay behind manually to detonate the bomb.
After all the non-flight crew volunteers, they draw straws, and A. J. is selected.
As he and Harry exit the airlock, Harry rips off A.
J.
's air hose and shoves him back inside, telling him he is the son Harry never had, and he would be proud to have A.J.
marry Grace.
Harry prepares to detonate the bomb and contacts Grace to say his last goodbyes.
After the Freedom moves to a safe distance, Harry pushes the button at the last minute (after some difficulty) and his life passes before his eyes as the asteroid is destroyed.
It breaks in two and both halves fly past the Earth.
Freedom lands, and the surviving crew are treated as heroes.
A. J. and Grace get married, with photos of Harry and the other lost crew members present in memoriam.