Chance (Peter Sellers) is a middle-aged man who lives in the townhouse of an old, wealthy man in Washington, D.C.
He is simple-minded and has lived there his whole life, tending the garden.
Other than gardening, his knowledge is derived entirely from what he sees on television.
When his benefactor dies, Chance is forced to leave and discovers the outside world for the first time.

Chance wanders aimlessly, wearing his former employer's expensive clothes.
Chance passes by a TV shop and sees himself captured by a camera in the shop window.
Entranced, he steps backward off the sidewalk and is struck by a chauffeured car owned by Ben Rand (Melvyn Douglas), an elderly business mogul.
In the back seat of the car sits Rand's wife Eve (Shirley MacLaine).

Eve brings Chance to their home to recover.
Drinking alcohol for the first time in the car ride home, Chance coughs as he tells Eve his name.
Eve mishears "Chance the Gardener" as "Chauncey Gardiner".
Judging from Chance's appearance and manners, Rand assumes that Chance is an upper class, highly-educated businessman.
Chance's style and seemingly-insightful ways embody the qualities Rand admires.
Chance's simplistic utterances about gardens and the weather are interpreted as allegorical statements about business and the state of the economy.

Rand is also a confidant and adviser of the U.S. President (Jack Warden), whom he introduces to "Chauncey".
The president interprets Chance's remarks about how the garden changes with the seasons as economic and political advice.
Chance, as Chauncey Gardiner, quickly rises to national public prominence.
He becomes a media celebrity with an appearance on a television talk show and soon rises to the top of Washington society.
He remains very mysterious, as the Secret Service men are able to learn almost nothing about his background.
Public opinion polls start to reflect just how much his "simple brand of wisdom" resonates with the jaded American public.

Rand, dying of aplastic anemia, encourages Eve to become close to Chance.
At his funeral, while the president delivers a speech, members of the board of Rand's companies hold a whispered discussion over potential replacements for the President in the next term of office.
As Rand's coffin is about to be interred in the family mausoleum, they unanimously agree on "Chauncey Gardiner".

Oblivious to all this, Chance wanders through Rand's wintry estate.
He straightens out a pine sapling and then walks off across the surface of a small lake.
The audience now sees Chance physically walking on water (with connotations of the Roadrunner cartoon he watched on television earlier: he will not be forced to obey the world's laws until he realizes he is defying them).
He pauses, dips his umbrella into the water under his feet as if testing its depth, turns, and then continues to walk on the water as the president quotes Rand: "Life is a state of mind."

Closing credits are now superimposed over a television screen of static, but were originally shown over a series of out-takes of the scene wherein Chance is speaking to a doctor after Eve takes him to an emergency room after clipping him with her limousine.
The scene is supposed to show Sellers (as Chance) relate a message from a street thug he encountered before the accident, which he does verbatim.
The scene in the movie is ultimately shortened because, as shown in the out-takes, the cast and crew cannot contain themselves at Sellers' comedic rendition.