The film is set in an abandoned asylum.
The head of the facility, Dr. Richard B. Vannacutt (Jeffrey Combs), had performed grotesque experiments on the patients, killing many in the process.
The hospital was closed in 1931 after the patients escaped from their cells, killing the entire staff (except five who were not present) and setting fire to the hospital.
Vannacutt had rigged the building with numerous iron gates, activated by cranks and levers that can not be reset for twelve hours, to keep patients from escaping.
He closed the gates during the fire, dooming the patients and himself to death.
Decades later, during reconstruction of the facility, several unexplained deaths result in the building being dubbed "The House on Haunted Hill".

Advance to the present day, in 1999.
Evelyn Stockard-Price (Famke Janssen), a spoiled trophy wife, is in a disintegrating marriage with Steven Price (Geoffrey Rush), an amusement park mogul with a wicked sense of humour.

Price leases the house from the owner, Watson Pritchett (Chris Kattan), for Evelyn's birthday party.
Evelyn gives Price a lengthy guest list; he shreds it to spite her and then creates one of his own.
The five guests arrive for the party - Jennifer Jenzen (aka Sara Wolfe) (Ali Larter), Eddie Baker (Taye Diggs), Melissa Margaret Marr (Bridgette Wilson), Dr. Donald Blackburn (Peter Gallagher), and Pritchett himself.
The guests are not the ones Price invited—neither Evelyn nor Price know who they are.
Despite this, Price continues the party's theme, offering $1 million to each guest who stays in the house and survives until morning, with any person not making it having his money added to the pot.

The security gates are suddenly tripped, locking everyone inside until the gates unlock in the morning.
After finding some hand guns, Sara, Eddie and Pritchett decided to take one of the guns.
Meanwhile, Price scolds Carl Schecter (Max Perlich), a company employee - who has developed a series of harmless traps to scare the guests— for not letting him know he planned to pull a stunt like closing the iron gates.
When Schecter states that he is not responsible, Price believes Evelyn is responsible.
Meanwhile, Pritchett, Eddie and Sara go into the lower levels to find a way to open the gates.

Melissa is killed by one of the ghosts when she wanders off in the basement.
After Melissa's disappearance, Price goes to Schecter to accuse him of faking the killing and hiding her.
when he turns the seat around Schecter is found, dead, with his face hollowed out.
Surprised, Price notices a man on the screen, when getting a closer look it reveals to be a doctor walking through the room with a bloody knife.
Evelyn dies in front of the others, when they find her mysteriously strapped onto a hypercharged electroshock therapy table.
Pritchett has repeatedly stated that the house is haunted – after finding their last names on a staff picture from the asylum, the group deduce that that the spirits themselves created the guest list specifically to include the descendants of the five members of Vannacutt's staff who did not die in the 1931 incident.
The only exception is Blackburn, whose name does not appear amongst the staff.

We soon see that Blackburn is Evelyn's lover and that they are working together to bring down Price.
Evelyn, who was brought back to life with a needle by Blackburn, kills Blackburn and uses his body to frame Price.
Sara, who heard Melissa moaning in the basement, comes across an incoherent Price in the basement, and believing that he is Blackburn's murderer, shoots him when he approaches her.
After the others return upstairs, Evelyn approaches Price to gloat, and Price, protected by a bullet-proof vest, attempts to kill Evelyn.
The two scuffle before Price throws her through a decaying door.
Inside the rotting room, the two realize they just stumbled upon the evil core of the house.
The Darkness – a dark, shape-shifting creature composed of the spirits in the house – awakens and begins to take form.
Evelyn is captured by the Darkness, which assimilaties Evelyn into itself, killing her while Price watches in horror.

The Darkness emerges in front of Price, revealing that it is composed of "everyone who died and is responsible".
This force begins to pursue Price with the intention of killing all the remaining guests.
Upstairs, Pritchett, Eddie and Sara investigate when they hear Price's screams.
Pritchett is killed by The Darkness, allowing Price to evade it.
Price tells Sara and Eddie that "the house is alive" and deduces that the only way to get out is through the attic.
The three flee as The Darkness begins to seep through the house, manipulating the walls and shattering the floors as it chases them.

As they flee, Sara trips, and the Darkness uses Melissa's form to try to lure her to it.
Price activates a pulley that reveals an opening in the window of the attic.
When the Darkness seeps into the attic, Price sacrifices himself to give the others time to escape, but the Darkness reactivates the iron gate after Sara escapes, trapping Eddie inside.

When The Darkness confronts Eddie about his ancestor's actions, it takes on several forms of damned spirits including Melissa & Evelyn who taunt him about his doom.
Realizing he is about to be taken, Eddie screams out of desperation that he was actually adopted.
As the Darkness prepares to assimilate Eddie, Pritchett's ghost suddenly appears and opens the iron gate.
The Darkness is distracted by Pritchett long enough for Eddie to escape out the window to Sara safe on an outside ledge.
Pritchett's ghost and the Darkness then both fade away.
As Sara and Eddie watch the sun rise, they notice an envelope halfway through the gate.
It contains all five $1 million cheques, made out to cash.

In an epilogue, a film is shown with the patients torturing Evelyn and Price in what appears to be "the other side", the assumption being that everyone killed in the house relives death for eternity.