In 2003, an alcoholic, burnt-out former U.S. Marine Corps special operator and Central Intelligence Agency officer John Creasy (Denzel Washington) looks for work and reunites with old friend and comrade Paul Rayburn (Christopher Walken), who runs a security firm in Mexico.
Because of the extremely high rate of kidnappings in Mexico City for ransom money, businessman Samuel Ramos (Marc Anthony) hires Creasy through Rayburn to guard his nine-year-old daughter "Pita" (Dakota Fanning), intending to keep him on for only a short period in order to renew his kidnap and ransom insurance on Pita.
Creasy suffers from alcoholism, apparent depression, and severe guilt as a result of his past work as a counterinsurgency fighter and professional assassin, and so works for Samuel at a rate far below what his experience would command.
At first Creasy distances himself socially from Pita, but the two soon develop a friendship, which allows Creasy to overcome his demons and to act as a mentor and surrogate father-figure to the girl.

After a piano lesson, Pita is abducted in public; Creasy kills four of the kidnappers (two of which are corrupt cops), but he is shot multiple times and collapses.
The Ramoses agree to deliver a dead drop ransom of US$10 million per the instructions of "La Voz" ("The Voice") (Roberto Sosa), the mastermind of the kidnapping ring.
Samuel's attorney, Jordan Kalfus (Mickey Rourke), arranges for the ransom money to be collected from Samuel's kidnapping insurance policy, then arranges for it to be delivered to the kidnappers.
The drop, however, is ambushed by members of a different Mexican crime syndicate, including corrupt police, several of the ring's members are killed, and the money is stolen, resulting in The Voice notifying the Ramoses that Pita will be killed.

Creasy leaves the hospital before fully recovering from his wounds and vows to Pita's mother Lisa (Radha Mitchell) that he will kill everyone involved in Pita's abduction.
Rayburn helps him get weapons, C4, detonators, sawed-off shotgun, including an RPG and a variety of hand guns.
With the help of Mariana Guerrero (Rachel Ticotin), a journalist investigating the kidnappings, and Miguel Manzano (Giancarlo Giannini), an agent of the Agencia Federal de Investigación (AFI), Creasy begins methodically hunting down and killing those involved in Pita's abduction.
Each person traced leads Creasy to the next by providing vital information, once they have provided this information to Creasy, the majority are tortured and killed.
The corrupt policeman who stole the money from the ransom drop reveals that the bags only contained $2.5 million.

Investigating further, Creasy finds Kalfus dead and evidence of Samuel's desperate financial condition, and confronts him with Lisa present.
Samuel confesses to Creasy and Lisa that he agreed to Kalfus' plan to stage Pita's kidnapping to pay off business debts by fraudulently collecting the insurance money.
He planned to keep $5 million for himself, pay Kalfus $2.5 million and the kidnappers would receive $2.5 million for the staged kidnapping.
He also confesses that when Pita was not returned, he killed Kalfus.
Creasy leaves a pistol and bullet (one that he had previously used to attempt suicide but that had not fired) for Samuel, who then commits suicide with it.

After some continued digging based on information provided by Creasy's targets, Mariana writes an article revealing The Voice's identity as Daniel Sánchez.
Creasy shows up at Daniel's ex-wife's house and is shot by his brother Aurelio (Gero Camilo), who then tries unsuccessfully to escape.
Creasy calls Daniel to threaten to kill his brother, and Daniel reveals that Pita is still alive and offers to free her if Creasy surrenders himself with Aurelio.
Creasy agrees and he and Lisa meet at the exchange site where the kidnappers release Pita as Creasy releases Aurelio.
Creasy and Pita share a tearful goodbye before he surrenders himself and is driven away by the kidnappers, presumably to be tortured and killed.
En route, however, he loses consciousness as a result of his gunshot injury and appears to be at peace.
Daniel Sánchez is later killed by Miguel Manzano during an AFI raid.