Sam Wheat (Patrick Swayze), a banker, and Molly Jensen (Demi Moore), a potter, are a loving couple who move into a New York City apartment.
At work, Sam discovers a major discrepancy in multiple bank accounts and confides in his good friend and colleague Carl Bruner (Tony Goldwyn).
Carl offers to investigate the matter, but Sam decides to investigate himself.
Later that night, Sam and Molly are attacked by armed thug Willie Lopez (Rick Aviles) and Sam is killed by a gunshot during a struggle with Willie.
Sam's ghost arises from his dead body, which lies next to the distraught Molly.
He gradually realizes that he is a ghost whose presence cannot be seen or heard.

Sam stays close to Molly, who remains distraught at losing him.
Carl stops by to see Molly and persuades her to take get some fresh air.
Sam can't bring himself to walk through the door after them, but Willie comes in, looking for something.
When Molly returns, the killer hides until Sam spooks Molly's cat, causing Willie to get scratched and flee.
Sam steps through the door, and follows the killer to his place in Brooklyn, where he hears that he will return to Molly's house.
Before he returns to the city, Sam chances on the parlor of Oda Mae Brown (Whoopi Goldberg), a charlatan medium who discovers to her shock that she has actual psychic powers when she meets Sam, her first real ghost.
Sam persuades Oda Mae to warn Molly about Willie, but Molly does not believe her, especially after she learns of Oda Mae's extensive criminal record as a forger and con artist.

Sam discovers that Carl was involved in a money laundering scheme at the bank and that the attack was an attempt by Carl to acquire Sam's security codes so that he could transfer the money from the many accounts to one at another bank.
Sam learns how to interact with solid matter by willpower from an aggressive poltergeist (Vincent Schiavelli) he meets in the New York City subway who claims to have been murdered when somebody pushed him onto the subway tracks (it is implied he actually committed suicide).
Afterward, Sam persuades Oda Mae to thwart Carl's money laundering scheme.
Following Sam's instructions, Oda Mae impersonates the owner of Carl's fake bank account, closes the account, and reluctantly gives its $4 million contents to a church related homeless shelter.

Carl, due to transfer the money to a correspondent bank overseas, becomes desperate when he finds the account closed and empty.
Sam taunts him in the deserted office by moving objects and making accusations appear on his computer screen, repeatedly typing "MURDERER" and "SAM".
Carl visits Molly and declares to Sam that he will kill Molly unless the money is returned that evening.
He and Willie then go to Oda Mae's apartment to find her.
Sam manages to get there first and warns Oda Mae and her two sisters, who quickly escape and take refuge in a neighbor's apartment.
Sam uses his powers to separate and distract Carl and Willie, who are ransacking Oda Mae's apartment in search of the money.
Horrified by the experience, Willie flees and is run over by a car.
Willie rises as a ghost and is dragged into the darkness by a gang of shadowy demons, presumably to Hell.

Afterwards, Sam and Oda Mae return to Molly's apartment to warn her about Carl, but she refuses to let her in and breaks down in grief.
Sam finally convinces her that Oda Mae is genuine and he is truly present as a ghost by having her push a penny underneath the front door and Sam levitating it in front of Molly.
Astonished, Molly lets Ode Mae inside and while waiting for the police, Sam uses Oda Mae's body to share a final dance with Molly.

Carl arrives, prepared to murder Molly and Oda Mae, but they flee.
Sam is left momentarily weakened, as possession of a human body is extremely taxing to a ghost.
In the storage room, Carl manages to get a hold of Oda Mae and threatens to kill her, but Molly comes to her aid and holds Carl off long enough for Oda Mae to escape his grasp.
Carl grabs Molly and holds her at gunpoint, but Sam recovers and disarms him.
Carl tries to escape by swinging a giant metal hook at Sam and climbing through a window.
However, the hook hits the window and causes the plate glass to break into several jagged shards, one of which pierces Carl's stomach and kills him.
His ghost is then carried away by the same shadowy demons that took Willie earlier.

As Sam goes to Oda Mae and Molly and asks if they are all right, Molly suddenly realizes that she can hear him.
A heavenly light fills the room and Sam becomes fully visible to both Molly and Oda Mae.
Sam looks behind him and sees hundreds of people, presumably angels, in a gateway to Heaven.
With his task completed, Sam says an emotional farewell to Molly, thanks Oda Mae for her help, turns and walks into the light.