Middle school teacher Anna Taylor (Christina Ricci) attends a funeral of her piano teacher where she encounters the solemn owner of the funeral home, Eliot Deacon (Liam Neeson).
That night Anna argues with her boyfriend Paul (Justin Long), leaves in a panic, and gets in a traffic accident.
She awakens in a morgue finding the morgue director, Eliot, dressing her wounds and telling her she has died.
He tells Anna he has a gift to assist the dead accept their deaths.
It is revealed that Eliot talks to the dead and has a collection of photographs of corpses whom, it is implied, he has helped to "cross over".
Eliot injects Anna regularly with a chemical to "relax the muscles and keep rigor mortis from setting in."

Anna unsuccessfully attempts to escape several times; Eliot tells her she must let go of life as she had not really been living anyway.
Eventually, Anna escapes and finds a room with a phone where she reaches Paul, who hangs up thinking it's a prank.
Anna comes to believe she has actually died when Eliot allows her to see her corpse-like self in a mirror.
One of Anna's students sees her and alerts Paul, who becomes suspicious that she is still alive.
Paul requests to see Anna's body but Elliot does not allow it.

During the final preparation for the funeral, Anna asks to see herself one last time.
Eliot holds up a small mirror, and while she stares at herself she notices her breath condensing on the glass and begins to believe she has been alive all along.
Eliot injects her one last time to make her numb.
At the funeral, as Paul views Anna's body, she twitches her eyes but is unable to get his attention .
Paul places the engagement ring he intended to give her the night of the crash on her finger and kisses her.

After the funeral, Paul drinks heavily telling Eliot he knew Anna was not dead.
Anna is shown awakening to the sound of earth being shoveled onto her coffin.
She cries out and desperately scratches the satin lining of her coffin lid.
As she slowly dies of suffocation, Eliot suggests Paul should find out whether Anna is actually dead or not before it is too late.
Driving under the influence of alcohol, Paul rushes to the cemetery.
There is an ambiguous cut before he is shown digging up Anna's grave finding her alive.
The two embrace and Anna tells Paul she has always loved him.
As they hug, Paul is curious about odd sounds he hears; Anna explains it is the sound of Eliot's gloves and scissors on the table as he prepares Paul's body.
Paul sees Anna disappearing, then a bright flash of headlights.
A moment later, he finds himself in the morgue with Eliot standing over him preparing his body.
Paul says he saw Anna, but Eliot lies and tells him that he never made it to the cemetery due to a car accident which killed him.
Paul pleads that he is alive until the moment Eliot inserts a trocar deep into his torso.