James Penfield (Pryce) is an ambitious London-based BBC radio reporter, from humble origins but Oxford-educated.
He is commissioned to write a book on the Suez Crisis and undertakes this commission, claiming not to be a socialist, at the same time as the 1982 Falklands War is starting to dominate the British media.

This, however, is just a backdrop to his attraction towards Susan Barrington (Charlie Dore), an upper class, rather snooty TV journalist, to whom he is introduced through his close Oxford friend and fellow TV journalist, Jeremy Hancock (Curry).
Although he is persistent, he cannot get further than a late night kiss from her and so Jeremy suggests that he contact her mother, a prominent left-wing historian Ann Barrington (Harris) living in Norfolk, and married to advertising film director Matthew Fox (Frank Finlay).
It transpires that Ann wrote an article on the Suez Crisis on its tenth anniversary, and James wants to seduce the daughter by befriending the mother.

James soon finds himself spending more time with the mother than her daughter.
Claiming to be a socialist, they have several long discussions and also take long walks on the Norfolk Broads.
Meanwhile, his mother is dying, and having earlier said to Susan that both his parents are dead, he is forced to identify her only as a relative when his father manages to contact him while he is with Ann.
Returning to London, he is forced to ask for help from members of a women's peace camp for a jack after suffering a puncture.
Initially mistaken for another BBC man, he shows some feigned sympathy towards the group protesting the use of force outside a Norfolk airbase.
Visiting Norfolk again a week later with an uninterested Susan, James walks alone with Ann Barrington who kisses him and, later, enters his bedroom and has sex with him.

Caught up in this love triangle, James returns to his work in London.
Over a beer and pub ploughman's lunch with Matthew Fox, Fox consents to James making love to his wife, given that they have slept in separate beds for the last three years.
However, James refuses to take any calls from the mother when she attempts to contact him at the BBC.
He finally gets another Oxford friend and up and coming young poet to make a call to her ending the relationship, while he sits idly by reading advertisements in Exchange and Mart.

James, Jeremy and Susan have all been given the task of covering the 1982 Conservative Party conference so they travel down to Brighton together in James' Jaguar.
It is at the start of the conference that James first starts to get an inkling of something going on between the other two and directly asks Jeremy if he is up to something.
Later, during the conference, he attempts to talk to Susan but she brushes him off, and he then sees them caressing each other, having obviously returned from their hotel room.
The Conference finishes with Thatcher's closing address as she rouses popular support following the successfully resolved Falklands War and afterwards James confronts his friend in the Brighton Centre conference hall, calling him a shit for having betrayed him.
However, he in turn is told by Jeremy that he has known Susan for fifteen years and that they are 'old allies'.

The film ends with James having a conversation with his publisher about the success of his first book.
The closing scene is of James attending his mother's funeral, standing grim-faced and aloof at his father's side, as he impatiently checks his watch.