In 1833 London, a skilled barber named Benjamin Barker, is falsely charged and banished from London by the corrupt Judge Turpin, who had lusted after his wife, Lucy, and wanted Barker out of the way so he could take her for himself.
Barker is sent to a prison colony in Australia.
15 years later, Barker returns to London, adopting the alias Sweeney Todd, and is accompanied by sailor and his close friend, Anthony Hope.
At Mrs. Nellie Lovett's meat pie shop on Fleet Street, he learns that Lucy poisoned herself with arsenic after Turpin raped her as soon as Barker left.
Todd's teenage daughter Johanna is now Turpin's ward and, like her mother before her, is the object of Turpin's lust.
Todd vows revenge, reopening his barber shop in the upstairs flat after Mrs. Lovett returns his old straight razors to him.

While roaming London, Anthony spots Johanna in an upstairs room of a large house singing to her birds, and a beggar woman tells him her name.
Anthony is instantly smitten with her, and Turpin invites him in and mocks him for travelling the world and further reveals his grossly lustful personality by asking about Anthony's sexual experiences with women and boasting about his extensive collection of pornography.
He tells Anthony that he saw him lusting after Johanna and has his associate Beadle Bamford throw him out.
Though Bamford warns and threatens Anthony against going after Turpin's ward, and that he will be punished if he is seen there again, the sailor becomes convinced that he and Johanna are meant to be together.

During a visit to the marketplace, Todd denounces a fraudulent hair tonic made from urine and ink by faux-Italian barber Adolfo Pirelli, and humiliates him in a public shaving contest, winning £5 and gaining the attention of Beadle Bamford.
A few days later, Pirelli and his boy assistant, Tobias Ragg, who is frequently physically abused by his master, arrive.
Mrs. Lovett keeps Toby occupied downstairs, while in the parlor Pirelli reveals himself to be Todd's former assistant, Davy Collins, and threatens to reveal Todd's secret to Beadle Bamford unless Todd gives him half his earnings.
Instead of giving Pirelli a payoff, Todd beats him with a boiling kettle.
He then stuffs Pirelli in a trunk to hide him from Toby, later slitting his throat upon realizing that he is still alive.

After receiving some advice from Beadle, Turpin, intending to propose to Johanna so he can keep her for himself, pays a visit to Todd's parlor to groom himself.
Todd shaves Turpin while preparing to slit his throat; before he can do so, however, he is interrupted by Anthony, who bursts in and reveals his plan to elope with Johanna before he realizes Turpin is there.
Turpin leaves enraged, vowing never to return.
His chance at revenge missed, Todd swears revenge on the entire world and vents his murderous rage upon his customers while waiting for another chance to kill Turpin.

As he starts his vengeful killings, he kills aristocrats and commoners alike, believing that he is punishing the former for their exploitation of those below them, while saving the latter from their misery.
Mrs. Lovett becomes his willing accomplice, suggesting they dispose of the bodies by baking them into pies to improve her business.
Todd rigs his barber's chair with a pedal-operated mechanism, which deposits his victims through a trap door into Lovett's bake-house.
Meanwhile, Anthony begins to search for Johanna, who was sent by Turpin to Fogg's insane asylum upon discovering her plans to elope with Anthony.

The barbering and pie-making business prospers, and Lovett takes in Toby.
With both of the shops being such a success, Mrs. Lovett tells an uninterested Todd of her plans to marry him and move to the seaside.
Anthony finally discovers Johanna's whereabouts, and under advice from Todd, he poses as a wig-maker's apprentice, who are allowed into asylums to collect hair for wigs, thus providing him the access he needs to rescue Johanna.
Todd comes up with a new plan to lure Turpin back, and has Toby deliver a letter to him telling him where Johanna will be brought when Anthony frees her.
Toby has become wary of Todd and tells Mrs. Lovett, unaware of her role in the crimes: he promises to protect her, loving her as a surrogate mother only to discover that she possesses his old boss Pirelli's purse, but she quickly explains that it was a gift from Todd and that she is not suspicious of him and so Toby shouldn't be either.

Meanwhile, Beadle Bamford arrives at the barber shop, informing them that neighbors complain of the stink coming out of the chimney.
He is murdered by Todd, and Mrs. Lovett informs him of Toby's suspicions.
The pair search for Toby, whom Mrs. Lovett has locked in the basement bake-house to keep him out of the way.
Toby is nowhere to be found, having hidden in the sewers after seeing the Beadle's body drop into the room from the trap door above, as well as finding a toe in a pie.
Meanwhile, Anthony frees Johanna and brings her to the shop in disguise, while locking an asylum staff-member in a cell, where it is implied the inmates kill him.
In Todd's shop Johanna hides herself in a trunk in a corner of the room while Anthony finds a coach.

The insane beggar woman who has been pestering Todd, Lovett, and Anthony throughout the film makes her way into the shop seemingly searching for the Beadle.
As Todd enters, she claims that she recognizes him.
Just then, Turpin's voice is heard.
Todd quickly slits the beggar woman's throat and deposits her body through the trap door.
As Turpin enters, Todd explains to him that Johanna had repented, and offers a free shave.
Todd reveals his true identity to Turpin and stabs him in the neck numerous times before finally slitting his throat and dropping him through the trap door.
As Johanna peeks out of the trunk, Todd spots her and prepares to slit her throat as well, not recognizing her as his daughter.

Upon hearing Mrs. Lovett scream in horror as a still-alive Turpin grabs her dress, Todd is distracted.
He tells Johanna to "forget my face", and leaves her alive in his shop.
Todd runs to the basement, where he discovers that the beggar woman was his wife Lucy, whom he had believed to be dead based on Lovett's account of the poisoning.
Todd realizes that Lovett knew Lucy was alive, and she attempts to convince him that she misled him for his own good, confessing she loves him.
Todd pretends to forgive her, waltzing maniacally with her around the bake-house before hurling her into the open furnace and locking her in.
He returns to Lucy and cradles her dead body in his arms.
Having witnessed the death of the only mother he has ever known, a vengeful Toby emerges from the sewer, picks up the discarded razor and slits Todd's throat.
The film ends with Toby walking away as Todd bleeds to death over his dead wife.