When retired rock star Johnny Boz has his hands tied to the bedpost with a white silk scarf and is viciously stabbed to death with an ice pick during sex in a bed by a mysterious blonde woman at his apartment, homicide detective Nick Curran is sent to investigate.
The only suspect is Catherine Tramell, a crime novelist who was the last person to be seen with Boz on the night he died.
Nick and his partner, Gus Moran, visit her Pacific Heights mansion, but they find only Catherine's lesbian lover, Roxy, who sends them to Catherine's beach house at Stinson Beach.
When they ask Catherine about her relationship with Boz, she states that she came to her beach house instead of Boz's apartment and shows little emotion at hearing he is dead.
Nick and Gus, along with their superiors, discover that Catherine has written a novel about a former rock star who was killed in the same manner as Boz (stabbed in bed with an ice pick, hands tied together with a silk scarf).
During questioning by detectives, including Nick, at police headquarters, Catherine engages in provocative behavior, refuses to extinguish her cigarette, and re-crosses her legs — her short skirt revealing that she is not wearing underwear.
She then takes a lie detector polygraph which she passes.

Nick, who accidentally shot two tourists while high on cocaine, attends counseling sessions with police psychologist Dr. Beth Garner, with whom he has had an affair.
Nick goes to a bar with co-workers after the interrogation and is taunted by Lieutenant Marty Nilsen, an internal affairs investigator who is jealous of Nick's past case and constantly calls him "shooter".
Beth arrives and Nick leaves with her.
They go to her apartment, where aggressive foreplay escalates nearly into rape.
Nick learns that Catherine has a troubled history: Her parents were killed in a boating accident when she was an adolescent, leaving her a fortune; one of her college counselors, Noah Goldstein, was stabbed in his sleep with an ice pick when Catherine was attending UC Berkeley, and her former fiancé, boxer Manny Vasquez, was killed in the ring during a prize fight in Atlantic City.
Nick also discovers that Catherine makes a habit of befriending murderers, including Hazel Dobkins, a woman who stabbed her husband and children for no apparent reason.

During a visit to her beach house, Catherine taunts Nick, knowing of his past case and calls him "shooter" just as Nilsen did.
Knowing Beth is the only person with access to what information Catherine told him, he confronts Beth and she admits that she handed his file to Nilsen and later explains to Nick that Nilsen threatened to discharge Nick if he could not evaluate him directly.
An enraged Nick storms into Nilsen's office, assaults him, and accuses him of having sold Nick's file to Catherine.
Nilsen suspends Nick and he goes home and spends the evening drinking.
Beth visits him but he throws her out after a heated argument.
Nilsen is found dead in his car later that night, shot once in the head with a .38 caliber revolver.
Nick is the prime suspect because of their recent altercation.

A torrid affair between Nick and Catherine begins with the air of a cat-and-mouse game.
Catherine explains that she will base her next novel's character — a cop falling for the wrong woman only to be killed by her — on Nick, while at the same time he declares his love for her and his unchanged intention to nail her for Boz's murder.
Catherine and Nick have a drink in his house.
The pair later dance provocatively at Boz's dance club and have sex in bed.
Although Catherine ties Nick to the bedpost with a white silk scarf, she does not pull an ice pick out of the bed like Boz's killer did.