At a bistro in the Montmartre district of Paris, a young Irish woman named Deirdre (Natascha McElhone), who is a member of the IRA, meets with Larry (Skipp Sudduth), Vincent (Jean Reno), and Sam (Robert De Niro), all of whom are veterans of special operations units hired through "the man in the wheelchair".
They drive to a warehouse on the outskirts of Paris where Gregor (Stellan Skarsgård) and Spence (Sean Bean) are waiting.
The next morning Deirdre briefs the men on their mission: to attack a heavily armed convoy and steal a briefcase, the contents of which are not revealed.
Following the briefing, the team begins assembling their equipment and planning the operation.
One night while making an arms purchase, the men are ambushed by a sniper beneath the Pont Alexandre III, but in the ensuing gun battle they kill the arms dealers and escape from the police after a high-speed chase through the streets of Paris.

Meanwhile, Deirdre meets with her IRA handler, Seamus O'Rourke (Jonathan Pryce), who reveals that Russian gangsters are bidding for the case, so the team must act quickly to intercept it.
After Spence is exposed as a fraud by Sam and summarily dismissed, the others depart for Nice, where they observe the men in possession of the case and form a plan.
Sam and Deirdre go to their hotel posing as tourists and establish that these men are highly professional.
Later they stake out their villa, where they avoid being spotted by police by pretending to be lovers kissing—the attraction is not wholly pretense.
The next day, Deirdre's team ambush the convoy at La Turbie and pursue the survivors through the surrounding countryside and the Old Town of Nice.
After a lengthy car chase and gun battle in the Port of Nice, Gregor betrays the team, steals the case, and disappears.

Gregor tries to sell the case to the Russians, but his contact—his former KGB colleague—betrays him, and Gregor shoots him.
He then contacts Mikhi (Féodor Atkine), the leader of the Russian mob, and threatens to sell the case to the IRA unless Mikhi pays a grossly inflated price; Mikhi agrees.
Meanwhile, the rest of the team track Gregor through one of Sam's old CIA contacts and corner him in the Arles Amphitheatre.
Following a hectic gunfight, Gregor flees, but is captured by Seamus, who kills Larry and escapes with Deirdre.
During the fight, Sam saves Vincent's life, but is wounded in the process.
Vincent drives him to a villa in Les Baux-de-Provence owned by his modeler friend Jean-Pierre (Michael Lonsdale).
After removing the bullet and allowing Sam time to recuperate, Vincent asks Jean-Pierre to help him locate Gregor, Deirdre, and Seamus.

While Sam recovers, Jean-Pierre tells him the true story of the forty-seven Ronin, a group of samurai who were left leaderless (becoming rōnin) after their feudal lord was betrayed by another man's treachery.
Years later, these rōnin avenged their master's honor by killing the man who was responsible.
In turn, all forty-seven committed seppuku or ritual suicide for murdering their lord's betrayer.
Meanwhile, back in Paris, Seamus brutally beats Gregor into admitting that he mailed the case to himself.
Days later, as Gregor and Seamus retrieve the case from the post office, Sam and Vincent arrive on the scene and Sam confronts Deirdre.
Knowing that Sam has feelings for her and will not execute her, she escapes with Seamus and Gregor.
Following a high-speed chase through Paris, Vincent shoots out Deirdre's tires and sends her car over a highway overpass.
Gregor emerges from the car with the case and escapes, while Deirdre and Seamus are rescued from the burning vehicle.

Sam and Vincent discover that the case is identical to a type used by figure skaters, and deduces that Gregor received the fake case from the Russians.
Through Jean-Pierre's contact, they also learn that the Russians are involved with figure skater Natacha Kirilova (Katarina Witt), who is appearing at Le Zénith arena.
That night during her performance, Natacha's Russian mob boyfriend Mikhi meets with Gregor, who reveals there is a sniper in the arena who will shoot Natacha if Mikhi betrays him.
Mikhi shoots Gregor anyway, the sniper shoots Natacha, and Mikhi leaves with the case and the money.
Sam and Vincent follow the panicked crowd out of the arena in time to see Seamus shoot Mikhi and steal the case.
Sam runs ahead and finds Deirdre waiting in the getaway car.
He urges her to leave, revealing himself to be an active CIA agent pursuing Seamus, not the briefcase.
Seamus shoots his way past the crowd, wounding Vincent, and then heads back to the arena, with Sam in pursuit.
In the final gunfight, Seamus is about to kill Sam when he is fatally shot by Vincent.

Sometime later, in the bistro where they first met, Sam and Vincent talk while a radio broadcast announces that a peace agreement was reached between Sinn Féin and the British government, partly as a result of Seamus's death.
As Sam looks toward the door expectantly, Vincent tells him that Deirdre would not be coming back.
They part, and Sam drives off with his CIA contact.
Vincent pays the bill and leaves.