During a martial arts tournament, the American finalist Drew Carson (Reese Madigan) is humiliated by his opponent, kickboxer Trevor Gottitall (Trent Bushey) who pantses him during the match.
To add to the insult, Drew's teacher Master Kwan (Kim Chan) confesses that he is not—as he had claimed—a Shaolin monk, and therefore he had not passed on the actual knowledge of Shaolin kung fu to Drew.
Determined to learn the actual art to prevent another such situation, Drew departs for China and arrives at the Shaolin Temple.
At first, the monks do not let him enter, but with the help of a pretty tea shop waitress, Ashena (Alice Zhang Hung), and an old monk (Zhang Zhi Yen) who gives him a decisive advise, he waits outside of the temple for a week, after which he manages to be admitted.
The old monk also turns out to be the abbot of the temple, Master San De, and he and his stern taskmaster train Drew and a number of other young apprentices in the ways of the Shaolin.

At first Drew causes much trouble as his American teenage temperament clashes with the tranquility within the temple and with his fellow student, Gao (Daniel Dae Kim), but under the rigorous physical and mental training he both improves his fighting skills and learns the meaning of discipline, humility, and patience.
He makes friends with Gao and also manages to pass the two final tests: the Test of Spirituality, and the Test of the Chamber.
Accepted as a full-fledged member of the Shaolin Monastery, he accompanies—along with Ashena—a delegation of his fellow students and the abbot to a martial arts tournament in Shanghai.

At the tournament, Drew encounters the American kickboxer Trevor Gottitall once again.
Trevor taunts Drew before proceeding with this match against Gao.
Gao initially gains the upper hand, but Trevor resorts to his dirty fighting techniques and injures Gao.
With Gao pinned against the ropes, Trevor demands a match against the "American Shaolin".
Drew rises, but sits down again, refusing to fight Trevor on the principle of non-violence and selflessness.
Infuriated, Trevor continues to beat up Gao and hurls him out of the ring.
Encouraged by Master San De, Drew finally enters the ring to fight Trevor.
Trevor immediately used dirty tricks again, but Drew prevails and even offers his hand to the defeated Trevor.
The crowd voices their support for Shaolin, and Master San De declares that this is "the future of Shaolin".