Lara Croft (Angelina Jolie) is in an Egyptian tomb, seeking a diamond.
As she approaches it she is attacked by a large robot.
She disables it by ripping out its motivational circuits.
She takes the diamond, which is revealed to be a memory card labeled "Lara's Party Mix", and inserts it into a laptop computer inside the robot, whereupon it plays music.
Now it is revealed that the scene took place in a practice arena in her home, and that her assistant Bryce (Noah Taylor) programmed the robot, SIMON, to challenge her in combat.

It is the day of the first phase of a planetary alignment, culminating in a solar eclipse.
In Venice, the Illuminati search for a key to rejoin halves of "the triangle", which must be done by the final phase of the alignment.
Manfred Powell (Iain Glen), an Illuminati member, makes assurances that they are almost ready, but in reality he has no idea where to find the key.
Lara's butler, James "Hilly" Hillary (Chris Barrie), tries to interest her in several projects but she ignores them.
May 15, as Hilly is aware, is the day that Lara's father disappeared many years earlier.
She never recovered from his loss.

Later that night, Lara has a dream reminding her what her father said about the alignment and an object linked to it called the Triangle of Light.
Waking, she is aware of a clock ticking.
Searching for it, she discovers a secret chamber under the staircase with a carriage clock that had spontaneously begun ticking.
Bryce probes it and discovers a strange device hidden inside the clock.

Since the device resembles a clock, Lara consults a clock expert friend of her father's, Mr. Wilson (Leslie Phillips).
She believes it is connected to the "Triangle of Light", but Wilson disavows knowledge of the clock or the Triangle.
Lara encounters Alex West (Daniel Craig), an American archeologist and friend with unscrupulous methods.
They are attracted to each other, but Lara cannot abide his for-profit attitude.
That night, Lara is contacted by Wilson, who tells her that he gave her name to Powell in regards of the clock.