The year is 1991, and it has been three years since an immense lost and off-course extraterrestrial saucer bearing 300,000 enslaved aliens, the Newcomers, landed in the Mojave Desert on planet Earth.
Los Angeles becomes a new home for the aliens who take, or in some cases are assigned, renowned human names such as Harley Davidson and Humphrey Bogart.
However, among humans the aliens are discriminated against, and referred to in derogatory terms such as the word 'Slag' , or the ghettos which they reside in as 'Slagtown' .
Matthew Sykes (Caan) is a Los Angeles police detective who loses his partner Bill Tuggle (Brown) in a criminal shoot-out.
The detectives were trying to stop two Newcomer felons murdering another Newcomer named Cecil Porter (Parton), behind a cash register in a small mini-mart in what appeared to be a robbery; the Newcomer robbers are using high-powered weapons using sabot rounds, one of which kills Tuggle even through the vehicle he is using for cover.

The next day, Sykes' superior Captain Warner (McCarthy), informs his squad that they will have to work with the newly promoted Newcomer detective Sam Francisco (Patinkin), and that if nobody volunteers, he will choose someone to carry out those duties.
Although having racist opinions about "Slags", Sykes enlists to work with Francisco to investigate a similar homicide with a Newcomer named Warren Hubely; feeling that if he investigates that crime, he will also find opportunities to investigate his partner's death which he is officially forbidden to do.
Meanwhile, Warner assigns the robbery murder case to detectives Fedorchuk (Jason) and Alterez (Perez).
Showing no faith in their ability to find the truth, Sykes requisitions a powerful .454 Casull revolver for a sidearm to be more effective dealing with Newcomers.

As the troubled pair continue with the Hubely-homicide probe; Sykes discovers similarities between their case and the robbery, while at a crime lab, Francisco detects an abnormality on the body of one of the Newcomer criminals who was killed in the robbery with pathologist Mr. Winter (Young).
Following an interview with a Newcomer named Trent Porter (Thompson), who is also the son of the innocent Newcomer fatality during the robbery; Sykes and Francisco are led to a nightclub called Encounters to investigate a link in the homicides with a Newcomer named Joshua Strader (Kober).
However, they end up interviewing his girlfriend Cassandra (Bevis) instead, after he is murdered by a criminal ring led by Newcomer businessman William Harcourt (Stamp) and his henchman Rudyard Kipling (Howard).

Harcourt is in the latter stages of launching advanced plans to exploit the alien race by attempting to mass-produce and sell a drug called Jabroka.
The drug was used in the past to pacify the Newcomers when they were slaves, but has no effect on humans.
The abnormality noticed by Francisco on the body of the Newcomer criminal earlier, was a visual sign of the drug's influence.
In addition, the Newcomers Hubley, Porter and Strader were involved in the planning phases of the operation, but were later murdered due to Harcourt's desire to exclude them from any future financial rewards.
Ultimately, Sykes and Francisco track down Harcourt to the Encounters club, where he is secretly negotiating a timetable for the release of his potent narcotic.
The detectives attempt to foil his plans, as they are later led on a car chase with Harcourt and his cohort Kipling, through the streets of downtown Los Angeles.
Following a head-on automobile collision where Francisco is injured and Kipling subsequently killed, Sykes on foot, corners Harcourt onto a desolate drawbridge.
Harcourt then purposely overdoses on a sample of the controlled-substance he was illegally trying to distribute to the Newcomers.

As Sykes mistakenly believes he died, Harcourt is taken away by an ambulance, but later mutates into a significantly larger and more muscular Newcomer intent on causing violence.
After Francisco discovers Sykes' misstep, the duo pursue Harcourt.
Catching up with Harcourt near a fishing pier, Sykes leads him onto the deck of a fishing trawler.
The pair then end up in a physical confrontation in the open sea.
Harcourt dies, as his body disintegrates due to the effects of direct contact with salt water, which is hazardous towards Newcomer physiology.
Francisco commandeers a police helicopter, forcing himself to pull Sykes from the water even as it burns the flesh of his arm.
With the Tuggle and Newcomer murder cases solved, the authorities dismantle Harcourt's illicit scheme involved in trying to subdue the aliens, and Sykes invites Francisco to his daughter's wedding, pausing to apologize in advance for all the hateful things he knows he will say.
Francisco accepts, telling him, "After all...you are only human."