Adam Lerner (Gordon-Levitt) is a 27-year-old public radio journalist in Seattle with an artist girlfriend Rachael (Howard), of whom his best friend and co-worker Kyle (Rogen) disapproves.

After experiencing harsh pains in his back, Adam learns from his doctor that he has schwannoma neurofibrosarcoma (a malignant tumor) in his spine, and must undergo chemotherapy.
He sees on the Internet that his chances of survival are fifty-fifty.
After Adam reveals his diagnosis, his overbearing mother, Diane (Huston), who already cares for a husband Richard (Houde) suffering from Alzheimer's, wants to move in and care for him.
Adam rejects this offer, as Rachael has promised to be the one to take care of him.
Rachael, however, is "uncomfortable" going into the hospital during Adam's chemo treatments.
Later, Kyle sees Rachael kissing another man at an art gallery, and tells Adam that Rachael is cheating on him.
Adam and Rachael break up.
Throughout Adam's struggle, Kyle attempts to keep Adam's spirits high, which include helping Adam shave his head prior to chemotherapy and suggesting that Adam use his illness as a way to pick up women.

Meanwhile, Adam skeptically begins going to a young and inexperienced therapist, Katherine McKay (Kendrick), at the hospital.
Although their relationship and sessions have a rocky start, he slowly begins to open up to her about his disease and how it is affecting him.
The two develop a rapport both in and outside of their sessions, as the lines between doctor-patient and friends begin to blur.
She helps Adam understand his mother's situation as well.
During chemo treatments, Adam also befriends Alan (Hall) and Mitch (Frewer), two older cancer patients who are also undergoing chemotherapy.

After Mitch suddenly dies, Adam's fears become more evident upon hearing that his treatment is not working and that he needs to undertake a risky surgery as a last resort.
The night before his surgery, Adam has an argument with Kyle and demands to drive Kyle's car because Kyle is drunk—even though Adam does not have a driver's license.
After nearly causing an accident, Adam breaks down and criticizes Kyle for seemingly not taking his illness seriously.
Adam calls Katherine and tells her that he wishes he had a girlfriend like her, but also says he is tired and just wants it to be over.
That night, Adam stays at Kyle's and finds a book on surviving cancer, filled with notes and turned-down pages, proving that Kyle does care for Adam and is worried for him.

The next day when Kyle drops Adam off at the hospital, Adam embraces Kyle for being a good friend and apologizes for what he said the previous night.
After Adam says what could be his final farewells to his family, he undergoes his surgery.
After the surgery, Kyle, Diane, and Katherine are told by the doctor that although the bone degradation was worse than they had thought, the tumor was removed successfully, and that Adam would recover.

Some time later, Adam is getting ready for a date, with Kyle encouraging him and cleaning the incision on Adam's back from the surgery.
The doorbell rings and Adam lets Katherine inside.
After Kyle leaves, Katherine asks, "Now what?," and Adam simply smiles.