In the final days of the Italian Campaign of World War II, Hana, a French-Canadian nurse in a bombed Italian monastery looks after a critically burned man who speaks English but is defiant about revealing his identity.

David Caravaggio, a former thief who is now an Canadian Intelligence Corps operative, arrives at the monastery with bandaged hands and an acute interest in the morphine supply and the English patient's past.

Hana starts a romance with Kip, a Sikh sapper in the British Army defusing bombs, despite the "curse" she believes she casts on those close to her.

In the late 1930s, the Hungarian cartographer Count László de Almásy maps Saharan Egypt and Libya as a co-leader of a Royal Geographical Society archeological and surveying expedition in Egypt and Libya.
His partner, the British Peter Madox, are academics at heart and naïve about the brewing war.
Geoffrey and Katherine Clifton come to the camp aboard their privately-owned Boeing-Stearman.
Geoffrey is often away mapping; Katherine and Almásy fall in love.
Their intense romance founders on her guilt and his jealousy.

In the months before the war, the Count studies an ancient Saharan site, the Cave of Swimmers until a British order stops work at the camp because of the onset of fighting.
Peter leaves his Tiger Moth at Kufra oasis before the two go their separate ways.

Caravaggio lost his thumbs in an interrogation by a German Army officer and he seeks revenge against the three men he holds responsible, including Almásy.
He accuses the English patient of being Almásy and betraying the British.
The burn victim explains he has it backward: he was betrayed by the British.

When Geoffrey discovers the affair, he lures Katherine aboard their plane and pilots it into the camp in a crash aimed at the Count.
He is killed instantly, she is seriously injured, and Almásy narrowly hit.
Almásy leaves her in the Cave with provisions, then begins a scorching three-day walk for help.
Dazed and dehydrated, he stumbles into British-held El Tag and feebly attempts to explain his plight.
Under questioning, he loses his temper, is detained and transported in chains on a train north to Benghazi.
He escapes behind Afrika Korps lines and trades the British maps to the Germans for gasoline.
He flies the Tiger Moth to the Cave, but is too late.

He attempts to return Katherine's body but a German anti-aircraft battery shoots them down.
Her body is not recovered in the crash; he is horribly burned and rescued by Bedouin.

Carvaggio is ready to forgive.
Kip survives a brush with death defusing a bomb on the war's last day; Hana's hope in love is rekindled.
She cannot refuse Almásy's wish for a fatal dose of morphine.
She leaves for north of Florence, Kip's new post.