The film begins with Cassius Clay, Jr. (Will Smith) before his championship debut against then heavyweight champion Sonny Liston.
In the pre-fight weigh-in Clay heavily taunts Liston (such as calling Liston a "big ugly bear").
In the fight Clay is able to dominate the early rounds of the match, but halfway through the fight Clay complains of a burning feeling in his eyes (implying that Liston has tried to cheat) and says he is unable to continue.
However, his trainer/manager Angelo Dundee (Ron Silver) gets him to keep fighting.
Once Clay is able to see again he easily dominates the fight and right before round seven Liston quits, therefore making Cassius Clay the second youngest heavyweight champion at the time after Floyd Patterson.
(Mike Tyson would later beat Patterson's record).
Ali spends valued time with Malcolm X (Peebles) and the two decide to take a trip to Africa.

Clay is then invited to the home of Nation of Islam leader Elijah Muhammad where he is granted the name Muhammad Ali due to his status of World Heavyweight Champion.
While at home with his wife and children, Malcolm X is called by the Nation of Islam and has been informed Ali will not go to Africa and his suspension (Malcolm's) has been extended.
Muhammad Ali takes the trip to Africa where he finds Malcolm X, but later refuses to speak to him, honoring the wishes of Elijah Muhammad.
Upon returning to America and defeating Sonny Liston a second time, Ali continues to dominate as champion, until he is stripped of the title, boxing license, passport suspended and sent to jail for his refusal to be drafted during the Vietnam War.
After a three year hiatus, his conviction is later overturned, and attempts to regain the Heavyweight Championship against Joe Frazier.
Dubbed the Fight of the Century, Frazier wins, giving Ali the first loss of his career.
When Frazier loses the championship to George Foreman, Ali makes a decision to fight George Foreman to be the first boxer to win his title a second time.
Ali goes to Zaire to face Foreman for the title.
While there, Ali has an affair with a woman he meets named Veronica Porsche (who he is said to later marry in the epilogue).
After reading rumors of his infidelity through newspapers, his wife, Belinda Ali (Nona Gaye) travels to Zaire to confront him about this.
Ali says he is unsure as to whether he really loves Veronica Porsche (Michael Michele) or not, and just wants to focus on his upcoming title shot.
For a good portion of the fight against Foreman, Ali leans back against the ropes and covers up, letting Foreman wildly throw punches at him.
During the fight Muhammad Ali realizes that he has to react sooner or else he will be knocked out or possibly die in the ring.
As the rounds go on, Foreman tires himself out and Ali takes advantage.
He quickly knocks out the tired Foreman, and the movie ends with Ali regaining the Heavyweight Championship of which he was previously stripped.