On the last day of British rule in Hong Kong, Detective Inspector Lee (Jackie Chan) of the Hong Kong Police Force leads a raid at a shipping bar wharf, hoping to arrest the mysterious crime lord Juntao.
He finds only Sang (Ken Leung), Juntao's right hand man, who manages to escape.
However, Lee successfully recovers numerous Chinese cultural treasures stolen by Juntao, which he presents as a farewell victory to his departing superiors: Chinese Consul Solon Han (Tzi Ma) and British Commander Thomas Griffin (Tom Wilkinson).

Shortly after Han arrives in the United States to take up his new diplomatic post in Los Angeles, his daughter, Soo Yung, is kidnapped by Sang while on her way to her first day of school.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation informs Consul Han about the incident, who calls in Lee to assist in the case.
The F.B.I., afraid that the injury or death of Lee would result in negative attention, decide to pawn him off on the Los Angeles Police Department.
The arrogant and reckless detective, James Carter (Chris Tucker) is tricked into doing this but Carter makes a plan to solve the case himself when he finds out that he has been given a mundane task.

Carter meets Lee at Los Angeles International Airport and then proceeds to take him on a sightseeing tour of L.A., simultaneously keeping Lee away from the embassy and contacting several of his underworld informants about the kidnapping.
Lee finally escapes and makes his way to the Chinese Consulate, where an anxious Han and a group of F.B.I.
agents are awaiting news about his daughter.
While being reprimanded by Agent-in-charge Warren Russ (Mark Rolston), Carter accidentally involves himself in a phone conversation with Sang, where he poorly arranges a ransom drop of $50 million.

The F.B.I.
traces the call to a warehouse and sends in a team of agents only to have them killed by a bomb.
Spotting Sang nearby, Lee and Carter give chase, but Sang escapes, dropping the detonator in the process.
Carter's colleague, L.A.P.D.
bomb expert Tania Johnson (Elizabeth Peña), helps them trace the detonator to Clive (Chris Penn), a man previously arrested by Carter.
Clive is guilt-tripped by Lee into revealing his business relationship with Juntao whom he meets a restaurant in Chinatown.
Carter goes to the restaurant alone where he sees a surveillance video of Juntao carrying Soo-Yung into a van.
Lee arrives and rescues Carter, but the two are taken off the case after the F.B.I.
blames them for ruining the ransom drop.

The final confrontation comes at the opening of a Chinese art exhibition at the Los Angeles Convention Center, which Han and Griffin are overseeing, while the ransom is being delivered.
Carter, Lee and Johnson enter disguised as guests.
They conclude that Griffin is Juntao because Carter recognizes him from Chinatown and Lee sees him accept a detonator from Sang.
With this knowledge, Lee calls out Griffin as the real Juntao, and Griffin threatens to detonate a bomb vest attached to Soo Yung.
During the stand-off, however, Carter manages to sneak out and locate Soo Yung.
He then drives the van into the building and brings the bomb vest within range so that Griffin cannot set it off, knowing it would kill himself too.

Johnson manages to get the vest off Soo Yung while Griffin heads toward the roof with the breifcase of money.
Lee takes the vest and pursues Griffin while Carter shoots Sang dead in a gunfight.
Lee and Griffin find themselves dangling from the rafters under the roof.
Griffin falls to his death but by the time Lee falls, Carter is able to place a flag underneath and catch him.
Han and Soo Yung are reunited, and Han sends Carter and Lee on vacation together to Hong Kong as a reward for their actions.
Before Carter leaves, Agents Russ and Whitney offer him a position in the F.B.I., which he rudely refuses.
On the plane, Lee begins singing, which greatly annoys Carter.