In 2008 (five years after Freddy vs. Jason), Jason Voorhees is captured by the United States government and held at the Crystal Lake Research Facility.
In 2010, a government scientist decides to place Jason in frozen stasis after several failed attempts to kill him.
While Private Tanner Heflin places a blanket on Jason, Doctor Whimmer, Sergeant Trent, and a few soldiers hope to further research Jason's rapid cellular regeneration and try to take Jason.
They pull off the blanket covering his body, but find Calvert dead instead.
Having broken free of his restraints, Jason kills the soldiers and Whimmer.
Rowan lures Jason into an "ice" pod and activates it.
Then Jason ruptures the pod with his machete and stabs Rowan in the abdomen, spilling ice fluid into the sealed room and freezing them both.

Over 445 years later in 2455, Earth has become too polluted to support life and has moved to a new planet, Earth Two.
Three students, Tsunaron, Janessa and Azrael are on a field trip led by Professor Brandon Lowe who is accompanied by an Android robot, KM-14.
They enter the Crystal Lake facility and find the still frozen Jason and Rowan, whom they bring to their spaceship, the Apache.
Also on the ship are Lowe's remaining students, Kinsa, Waylander and Stoney.
They reanimate Rowan while Jason is pronounced dead and left in the morgue.
Lowe's intern, Adrienne, is ordered to dissect Jason's body.
Lowe, who is in serious debt, calls his financial backer Dieter Perez of the Solaris, who notes that Jason's body could be worth a substantial amount to a collector.

While Stoney has sex with Kinsa, Jason comes back to life and attacks Adrienne and then freezes her face with liquid nitrogen before smashing her head to pieces on a counter.
Jason takes a machete-shaped surgical tool and makes his way through the ship.
He stabs Stoney in the chest and drags him away, to Kinsa's horror.
Sergeant Brodski leads a group of soldiers to attack Jason.
Meanwhile, Jason attacks and kills Dallas by bashing his skull against the wall after breaking Azrael's back.
He then tries to attack Crutch, but Brodski and his soldiers save him.
Jason disappears, and after Brodski splits up his team, Jason kills them one by one.

Lowe orders Pilot Lou to dock in on Solaris.
As he is talking with the Solaris engineer, he is hacked apart by Jason.
With no pilot, the ship crashes through a nearby space station, destroying it, and killing Dieter Perez and everyone else on the Solaris.
The crash damages one of the Grendel's pontoon sections.
Jason breaks into the lab, reclaims his machete and decapitates Lowe.

With the ship badly damaged, the remaining survivors head for Grendel's shuttle, while Tsunaron heads elsewhere with KM-14.
After finding Lou's remains, Crutch and Waylander prepare the shuttle.
Rowan finds Brodski, but he is too heavy for her to carry, so she leaves to get help.
Waylander leaves to help with him, while Crutch prepares the shuttle.
Jason kills Crutch by electricution.
On board the shuttle, Kinsa has a panic attack and launches the shuttle without releasing the fuel line, causing it to crash into the ship's hull and explodes, killing herself in the process.
Brodski attacks Jason, but is overpowered.
Tsunaron reappears with an upgraded KM-14, complete with an array of weapons and new combat skills.
She fights Jason off and seemingly kills him, knocking him into a nanite-equipped medical station, and blasting off his right arm, left leg, his right rib cage and finally part of his head.
The survivors send a distress call and receive a reply from a patrol shuttle.

The survivors set explosive charges to separate the remaining pontoon from the main drive section.
As they work, Jason is accidentally brought back to life by the damaged medical station, rebuilt as an even more powerful cyborg called Uber Jason.
Jason easily defeats KM-14 by punching her head off.
As Tsunaron picks up her still functioning head, Jason attacks them, but is stopped by Waylander, who sacrifices himself by setting off the charges while the others escape.
Jason survives and is blown back onto the shuttle.
He punches a hole through the hull, sucking out Janessa.
A power failure with the docking door forces Brodski to go EVA to fix it.

Meanwhile, a hard light holographic simulation of Crystal Lake is created to distract Jason, but he sees through the deception just as the door is fixed.
Brodski confronts Jason so the rest can escape.
As they leave, the pontoon explodes, propelling Jason at high-speed towards the survivors, however, Brodski intercepts Jason in mid-flight and maneuvers them both into the atmosphere of Earth Two, incinerating them.
Tsunaron assures KM-14 that he will build a new body for her.

On the planet, two teens beside a lake see a falling star as Jason's charred mask sinks to the bottom of the lake.