Brit Robert Conway is a writer, humanitarian, diplomat, and former military man, all of which have made him a public hero.
But he is remarkably unfulfilled in his life, something he does not tell anyone.
On March 10, 1935, he is in Baskul, China, where a violent revolution is taking place.
It is his job to evacuate the ninety British subjects in the area, before he himself heads back to London to become British Foreign Secretary.
He is able to complete the evacuation, with him, his overly pragmatic brother George Conway, paleontologist Alexander Lovett (a fussbudget of a man), secretive Henry Barnard (who later states why he is so secretive about himself), and terminally ill American Gloria Stone his fellow passengers on the last flight out.
What they are initially unaware of is that the plane has been hijacked, and eventually crash lands high in the Himalayas, killing the hijacking pilot.
But instead of what seems a probable death for them, they are rescued by a band of men who take them back to their community hidden behind the mountains, a seemingly Utopian community named Shangrila, where the overall belief is to be kind.
Aging is also a seemingly unknown concept.
Each of the five has different feelings about their new sanctuary, where they eventually learn they were not brought by accident.
On one end of the spectrum is George, who does whatever he can to get back to civilization as he knows it, despite the probable hardship of doing so, especially since there is no means of communication in and out.
He believes what they have been told are all lies and that they are being held prisoners against their will.
On the other end is Bob, who believes that Shangrila is exactly what he's been looking for in life.
With no proof one way or another, the five have differing views of staying in Shangrila forever or trying to make their way out.
It may be not until they receive that "proof" that a definitive decision can be made, but by that time it may be too late for some.