Eight men eat breakfast at a Los Angeles diner before their planned diamond heist, and none of them knows who they really are.
Six of them use aliases: Mr. Blonde, Mr. Blue, Mr. Brown, Mr. Orange, Mr.
Pink, and Mr. White.
With them are gangster Joe Cabot, the organizer of the heist and his son, "Nice Guy Eddie".
After they discuss the plan, they leave to the heist.

The action abruptly cuts to a speeding car, in which Mr. White comforts Mr. Orange, who has been shot in the abdomen and is bleeding profusely, revealing they just performed the heist.
Shortly after they reach an abandoned warehouse.
Mr.
Pink arrives and angrily suggests that the job was a setup due to the rapid police response.
Mr. White tells Mr.
Pink that Mr. Brown was killed during the heist, and the men discuss Mr. Blonde, who murdered several civilians after the alarm triggered.
Mr. White is angered that Joe, an old friend of his, employed such a "psychopath" and agrees about a possible setup while Mr.
Pink reveals that he escaped with the diamonds and hid them in a secure location.
They argue over whether to take the now unconscious Mr. Orange to a hospital.
Mr. White also reveals that he has told Mr. Orange his name and home town.

Mr. Blonde, having watched them from a distance, steps forward and ends the dispute regarding Mr. Orange.
Mr. White berates him for his deadly rampage, but Mr. Blonde dismisses the criticism.
He tells the others to wait as Eddie is on his way there.
Mr. Blonde has also taken a police officer, Marvin Nash, hostage and the three men beat Nash in an attempt to find out if there is an informant.
Eddie then arrives and orders Mr.
Pink and Mr. White to assist him in retrieving the stolen diamonds and dispose of the hijacked vehicles, while Mr. Blonde stays with Nash and the unconscious Mr. Orange.

Alone with Mr. Blonde, Nash denies any knowledge of a setup, but Mr. Blonde is uninterested and tortures Nash for his own amusement, slashing Nash's face with a straight razor and severing his right ear.
He then douses Nash with gasoline, but before he can ignite it, Mr. Orange shoots and kills Mr. Blonde.
Mr. Orange then reveals to Nash he is an undercover cop, reassuring Nash that, upon Joe's arrival, a large police force is in position to raid the warehouse.

Eddie, Mr.
Pink, and Mr. White return to the warehouse to find Mr. Blonde dead.
Mr. Orange claims that Mr. Blonde was going to kill all of them and take the diamonds for himself.
After impulsively pulling out his gun and killing Nash, Eddie rejects Mr. Orange’s claims, saying that Mr. Blonde was a close personal friend who had always remained loyal to his father.
Then Joe arrives and reveals that Mr. Blue is dead.
He confidently accuses Mr. Orange of being an informant, forcing Mr. White to defend his friend.

Joe, about to execute Mr. Orange, is stopped when Mr. White points his gun at him, and Eddie in-turn takes aim on Mr. White.
Joe eventually shoots Mr. Orange, wounding him again; Mr. White shoots and kills Joe in response; Eddie shoots Mr. White, wounding him; and Mr. White shoots and kills Eddie.

Mr.
Pink, who was hiding during the melee, takes the diamonds and flees.
Badly wounded, Mr. White crawls to Mr. Orange and cradles him in his arms.
However, Mr. Orange reveals that he is in fact an undercover cop.
Devastated, Mr. White points his gun at Mr. Orange's head.
The police storm the warehouse, demanding that Mr. White drop his gun.
The frame zooms in on the face of Mr. White and a hail of gunfire is heard.