The most dominant clique at Westerburg High School consists of three wealthy and beautiful girls with the same first name: the leader, Heather Chandler (Walker), the bookish bulimic Heather Duke (Doherty), and the weak-willed cheerleader Heather McNamara (Falk).
Though they are the most popular students, the Heathers are both feared and hated.
They recently invited 17-year-old Veronica Sawyer (Ryder) to join their group, by association making her a very popular girl as well.
However, as the movie begins, Veronica has had enough of their behavior and longs to return to her old life and her nerdy friends.

At school, a rebellious outsider named Jason "J.D."
Dean (Slater) pulls a gun on school bullies Kurt Kelly (Fenton) and Ram Sweeney (Labyorteaux) and fires blanks at them.
Veronica finds herself fascinated by this dark and quirky newcomer.
When Veronica embarrasses Heather Chandler at a frat party by refusing sex and throwing up, Heather vows to destroy her reputation.
Later, J.D.
shows up at Veronica's house and they end up having sex after an impromptu game of strip croquet.
Veronica tells J.D.
she wants to make Heather puke her guts out.
The next morning, Veronica and J.D.
break into Heather's house.
J.D.
serves Heather a liquid he claims is a hangover cure but is actually drain cleaner, killing her.
Although initially shaken by their act, J.D.
regains his composure and urges Veronica to forge a dramatic suicide note in Heather's handwriting.

The school and community look on Heather's apparent suicide as a tragic decision made by a popular but troubled teenager.
Heather Duke soon steps into Heather Chandler's former role as clique leader and begins wearing a red scrunchie that had belonged to Chandler as a new symbol of her new status.

Several days later, Kurt and Ram spread a rumor about Veronica giving them oral sex.
To get even, J.D.
proposes that Veronica lure them into the woods with the promise to "make the rumors true," then shoot them with what he promises are nonfatal "Ich lüge" German bullets that only break the skin but do no real damage.
Afterwards they would humiliate Kurt and Ram by planting "gay" materials, such as a Joan Crawford photo and mineral water, on their unconscious bodies.
However, JD is lying; the bullets are in fact real.
At the rendezvous in the woods, JD shoots Ram but Veronica misses Kurt, who runs away.
Seeing Ram dead on the ground, Veronica to her horror realizes that the bullets are real after all.
J.D.
chases Kurt back towards Veronica, who panics and shoots him dead.
J.D.
plants the "gay" materials beside the boys, and a forged suicide note stating the two were lovers participating in a suicide pact.
At their funeral, the boys are made into martyrs against homophobia.

These fake suicides prompt an epidemic of similar attempts.
Martha Dunnstock, an obese, incessantly bullied student known as "Martha Dumptruck", pins a suicide note to her chest and walks into traffic.
She survives but is badly injured and is mocked for trying to "act popular."
Meanwhile, Heather McNamara calls a popular radio show while Veronica and Heather Duke are listening and talks of the depression in her life.
The next day, Heather Duke tells the entire school about Heather McNamara's radio call.
The humiliated McNamara attempts to take her life by overdosing on pills in the girls' bathroom, but is saved by Veronica.

Veronica finally decides she's had enough and breaks up with J.D.
He later climbs into her room with a revolver to kill her, but finds Veronica hanging from a noose.
Thinking her dead, he talks about his plan to blow up the school during a pep rally.
A petition he has been circulating via Heather Duke, to get the band Big Fun to perform on campus, was actually a mass suicide note.
Most of the students had already signed, so the mass murder would appear to be a mass suicide instead.
However, unbeknownst to J.D., Veronica faked the hanging by rigging herself with a harness around her waist.

Now clued in to J.D.
's plot to blow up the entire student body, she confronts him in the boiler room below the gym where he is rigging timed explosives.
She shoots him when he refuses to stop the bomb.
As J.D.
collapses, he stabs the timer and it stops.
Veronica walks outside to find the severely injured J.D.
with the bomb strapped to his chest, which he detonates as Veronica looks on impassively with an unlit cigarette hanging from her lips.
As the bomb explodes, J.D.
is killed while the blast singes Veronica and lights her cigarette.

As the students rush outside to find out what happened, Veronica confronts Heather Duke.
Veronica relieves Heather of the red scrunchie, saying "Heather my love, there's a new sheriff in town."
Free at last of the Heathers' toxic influence, she invites Martha Dunnstock to hang out on prom night and watch movies with her.