In 1280, King Edward "Longshanks" (Patrick McGoohan) invades and conquers Scotland following the death of Alexander III of Scotland who left no heir to the throne.
Young William Wallace witnesses the treachery of Longshanks, survives the death of his father and brother, and is taken abroad to Rome by his Uncle Argyle (Brian Cox) where he is educated.
Years later, Longshanks grants his noblemen land and privileges in Scotland, including the right of the lord to have sex with a woman subject on her wedding night.
When he returns home, Wallace (Mel Gibson) falls in love with his childhood friend, Murron MacClannough (Catherine McCormack), and they marry in secret so she does not have to spend a night in the bed with the English lord.
Wallace rescues Murron from being raped by English soldiers, as a consequence, Murron is captured and publicly executed.
In retribution, Wallace slaughters the English garrison.
Wallace sends the occupying garrison at Lanark back to England.

This enrages Longshanks, who orders his son, Edward II of England, to stop Wallace by any means necessary.
Wallace rebels against the English, and as his legend spreads, hundreds of Scots from the surrounding clans join him.
Wallace leads his army to victory at Stirling and then sacks the city of York, killing Longshanks nephew and sending his head back.
Wallace seeks the assistance of Robert the Bruce (Angus Macfadyen), the son of nobleman Robert the Elder (Ian Bannen) and a contender for the Scottish crown.
Robert is dominated by his father, who wishes to secure the throne for his son by submitting to the English.
Worried by the threat of the rebellion, Longshanks sends his son's wife, Isabella of France (Sophie Marceau), to try to negotiate with Wallace hoping that Wallace will kill her in order to draw the French king to declare war.
Wallace refuses the bribe sent with Isabella by Longshanks, but after meeting him in person, Isabella becomes enamored with him.
Meanwhile, Longshanks prepares an army to invade Scotland.

Warned of the coming invasion by Isabella, Wallace implores the Scottish nobility that immediate action is needed to counter the threat and to take back the country.
Leading the English army himself, Longshanks confronts the Scots at Falkirk where noblemen Lochlan and Mornay betray Wallace.
The Scots lose the battle, and Hamish's father dies after the battle.
As he charges toward the departing Longshanks on horseback, Wallace is intercepted by one of the king's lancers, who turns out to be Robert.
Remorseful, he gets Wallace to safety before the English can capture him.
Wallace kills Mornay and Lochlan for their betrayal, and wages a guerrilla war against the English.
Robert, intending to join Wallace and commit troops to the war, sets up a meeting with him in Edinburgh.
However, Robert's father has conspired with other nobles to capture and hand over Wallace to the English.
Learning of his treachery, Robert disowns his father.
Isabella exacts revenge on the now terminally ill Longshanks by telling him she is pregnant with Wallace's child, intent on ending Longshanks line and ruling in his son's place.

In London, Wallace is brought before an English magistrate, tried for high treason, and condemned to public torture and beheading.
Even whilst being hanged, drawn and quartered, Wallace refuses to beg for mercy and submit to the king.
As cries for mercy come from the watching crowd, the magistrate offers him one final chance, asking him only to utter the word "Mercy" and be granted a quick death.
Wallace instead shouts the word "Freedom!"
and, impressed by the Scotsman's valour, the judge orders his death.
Moments before being decapitated, Wallace sees a vision of Murron in the crowd, smiling at him.
In 1314, Robert, now Scotland's king, leads a Scottish army before a ceremonial line of English troops on the fields of Bannockburn where he is to formally accept English rule.
As he begins to ride toward the English, he stops and invokes Wallace's memory, imploring his men to fight with him as they did with Wallace.
Robert then leads his army into battle against the stunned English, winning the Scots their freedom.