The film starts in the present and in flashbacks looks at how Cindy and Dean come together.
Dean is a young high school dropout, working for a New York City moving company.
Cindy is a pre-med student living with her unhappy parents and caring for her grandmother in Pennsylvania.
Cindy and Dean meet at Cindy's grandmother's nursing home while Dean is delivering a new resident's furniture.
They rush into marriage after discovering that Cindy is pregnant, both knowing it is most likely from her previous boyfriend Bobby.
Before the wedding, Bobby, unaware of Cindy's pregnancy, finds and beats Dean at his job.

This narrative of their courtship is intercut with that of a weekend some five years later.
They live in rural Pennsylvania and Dean works at painting houses while Cindy is a nurse at a doctor's office.
One evening Dean insists on taking Cindy to a romantic motel two hours away to "get drunk and have sex".
In the liquor store Cindy sees Bobby.
Bobby asks Cindy if she has ever cheated on her husband and she hesitates, but says no.
In the car Cindy tells Dean about seeing Bobby and Dean is upset.
They argue and Cindy is overwhelmed.
At the motel they argue about Dean's lack of ambition and alcohol consumption.
Cindy is reluctant to make love.
They get drunk and argue while attempting sex.
Finally Cindy locks Dean out of the bedroom.
Cindy is called away early in the morning to work at the clinic.
She leaves a note for Dean.

Cindy's boss proposes having an affair to Cindy.
She is offended, having thought he had respected her work.

Angry that Cindy left the motel without telling him, and leaving him stranded without a ride, Dean shows up at the clinic drunk, leading to an intense argument and violent altercation with Cindy's boss, who fires Cindy over the incident.
Dean tries to persuade her to give the relationship another chance, asking if she wants their daughter to grow up in a broken home.
Cindy says she does not want Frankie to grow up with parents who are so hateful to each other.
Dean reminds Cindy of their wedding vows, and Cindy apologizes.
She asks Dean for "a little space," and he complies: the film ends as we see him walking away from the house, with Frankie running after him to ask him to stay.
Dean tells his daughter to go back to her Mom, and Dean keeps walking.
[3]