New York "Sex and the City" columnist Carrie Bradshaw and her three best girlfriends - PR maven Samantha Jones, lawyer Miranda Hobbes and art gallery curator Charlotte York - have long mastered one of the two "L"s to which she believes all women arriving in New York aspire: labels.
As such, the foursome, three years after John Preston AKA Mr. Big professed his love to Carrie and three books by Carrie on their life later, focus on the other "L": love.
Charlotte believes she has the perfect love life with husband Harry Goldenblatt and their adopted two year old daughter Lily.
She is hyper-vigilant in ensuring that that life remains perfect especially in light of some unexpected news on the home front.
Extremely self-confident Samantha, now living in Los Angeles with her younger client/boyfriend, actor Smith Jerrod, is in love with him, but feels that she is losing her sense of identity to Smith's rising star.
This revelation is even more troubling to her with a handsome new neighbor moving in next door, he who always seems to be having sex with a different woman every night.
Miranda and her bartender husband Steve Brady are facing problems maintaining a healthy sex life as Miranda focuses her attentions on caring for their five year old son, Brady Hobbes.
This and a subsequent action by Steve places a strain on their love life and marriage.
And Carrie and Big make the decision to buy an apartment together.
The lavish apartment they choose and the subsequent financial arrangement they embark upon lead to Carrie and Big deciding to get married.
Combined with a request by Vogue editor Enid Frick to Carrie, Carrie and Big come to individual views as to the emotional toll on each other of their decision, which is complicated by a statement by Miranda.
A result is that Carrie, for the first time, hires a personal assistant, a young woman named Louise from St. Louis who unwittingly helps Carrie come to grips with her personal problems.
Through the trials and tribulations of the four in dealing with their respective love lives, they, as always, lend their emotional support to the other three.