Jim McAllister (Matthew Broderick) is a high school teacher in the suburbs of Omaha, Nebraska, whose enthusiastic involvement at school masks his frustration with other aspects of his life.
Tracy Flick (Reese Witherspoon) is an overachieving yet unpopular junior.
Earlier in the year, another teacher, Jim's best friend Dave (Mark Harelik), seduced Tracy, who ultimately revealed the affair to her mother.
As a result, Dave was fired from his job and divorced by his wife, Linda (Delaney Driscoll), but was not charged with statutory rape.

Tracy announces that she is running for student body president, which horrifies Jim, who is in charge of organizing the school's student government and truly despises Tracy, who is unopposed.
Jim decides to teach Tracy a lesson in humility by introducing another candidate.
Paul Metzler (Chris Klein) is a kind-hearted and popular football player at the school.
Paul is unable to play football his final year due to a broken leg, leaving him depressed.
Jim convinces him to register for the election in order to stop Tracy's chances of winning, since Jim thinks that if Tracy wins the election, she will have to spend more time with him which might lead to the same misfortune that Dave had.
At first, Paul does not like the idea because he does not feel smart enough to run in the election and does not want to go against Tracy, who has been nice to him, even letting him copy her homework.
Eventually, Paul decides to run because the election gives him a new purpose.
This brings out Tracy's vindictiveness, as she is jealous of Paul’s ease at being successful and popular.

Meanwhile, Paul's younger sister Tammy (Jessica Campbell) is dumped by her girlfriend, Lisa (Frankie Ingrassia), who says that she is heterosexual and was just "experimenting".
Lisa does not waste time in "getting over" Tammy, performing oral sex on Paul after asking him to drive her home from school one day.
The two become an item and election partners, in part to anger Tammy.

In retaliation, Tammy decides to run for president as well, with a platform that student government is a sham.
During a school assembly to hear their speeches, after Tracy and Paul only draw polite applause, Tammy delivers a defiant speech in which she denounces the election by saying that the school president does not really help the student body, and only uses the position to get credentials for college applications (much to Tracy's chagrin).
Tammy declares that she will dissolve the student government if elected.
This rallies the student body to a standing ovation.
Fearing the student body will vote for Tammy and thus cause the dissolution of the student government, the school suspends Tammy.

While at school one night over the weekend, Tracy tries to fix one of her posters, but accidentally tears it.
In a fit of uncharacteristic rage, she destroys all of Paul's campaign posters.
She tries to dispose of them at the power plant, but is observed doing so by Tammy.
The next day, when confronted by Jim, Tracy claims innocence and threatens legal action against the school.
Tracy then sees Tammy talking to Jim and showing him the torn posters, which causes Tracy to panic.
However, Tammy is actually "confessing" to Tracy's crime and is then transferred to a private parochial school for girls—the intended result of her false confession—and kicked out of the election.

Later, Jim, who is secretly attracted to Linda, kisses her spontaneously the day before the election.
Linda asks Jim to rent a motel room for a later rendezvous and he leaves school during a class to prepare the room.
However, when he arrives later to pick her up, she is not home.
He returns home to find Linda and his wife (Molly Hagan) talking together.
Knowing he has been caught, Jim spends the night in his car outside Linda's house.

The next morning, Jim oversees the counting of the election ballots at school.
During this, he calls Linda several times, professing his love for her, after a bee stings him in the eye.
Jim's wife kicks him out of the house when he tries to apologize.
After all the ballots are counted, Tracy has won by one vote (Paul voted for Tracy, feeling she was more qualified and that it is too arrogant to vote for oneself).

When he happens to spot Tracy dancing around excitedly in the hall, Jim deduces that she found out she won before it was announced.
Feeling vindictive, Jim secretly disposes of two of Tracy’s ballots and then demands a recount, naming Paul as the winner.
As Jim and his student argue about the validity of vote it is suggested that Tammy, despite being disqualified on the ballot, actually received more protest votes than either of the other candidates.
When a janitor discovers the two discarded ballots and presents them to the principal, Jim resigns from his job.

Divorced and publicly humiliated, Jim leaves Nebraska, ultimately choosing to fulfill a longtime dream of moving to New York City and becoming a tour guide at the American Museum of Natural History, where he meets a new woman.
Tracy gets accepted into Georgetown University (but still does not fit in with other students, much to her disappointment), while Paul gets into the University of Nebraska.
Tammy loves her new school, where she has met a new girlfriend.

As the film closes, Jim recounts his final encounter with Tracy.
After seeing her climb into a limousine with a politician, Jim is reminded of his friend Dave and what Tracy has done to get where she is.
Jim hurls a soda cup at the limousine, then makes a quick getaway.
The film ends with Jim asking questions to some children he is giving a tour to at the Museum, all the while deliberately ignoring an overeager girl (the only one of the group who could answer) who reminds him of Tracy.