Marty McFly lives with his unambitious family in Hill Valley, California.
His father, George, is bullied by his supervisor, Biff Tannen, while his mother, Lorraine, is an out-of-shape drinker.
Marty's underachieving older siblings, Dave and Linda, also live in the household.
At dinner, Lorraine recalls how she and George first fell in love when her father accidentally hit George with his car.

Marty meets his friend, scientist Dr. Emmett "Doc" Brown, late at night in the parking lot of a deserted shopping mall, where Doc reveals a time machine made from a modified DeLorean DMC-12.
The vehicle's time displacement is powered by plutonium, which supplies 1.21 gigawatts of power to a device Doc calls the "flux capacitor."
Doc explains that the car travels to a pre-set date upon reaching 88 miles per hour; as an example, he enters the date November 5, 1955, the date he came up with the concept of the flux capacitor.
Before Doc can make his first trip, Libyan terrorists, from whom he stole the plutonium, arrive in a van and shoot him.
Marty attempts to escape using the DeLorean and inadvertently activates the time machine.
He is transported back to 1955 and finds himself without the plutonium needed for the return trip.

While exploring the 1955 Hill Valley, Marty meets the teenage George, who is being bullied by Biff and is secretly writing science fiction stories.
As George is about to be hit by Lorraine's father's car, Marty pushes him out of the way and is knocked out by the impact.
Consequently, Lorraine becomes infatuated with Marty instead of George.
Marty goes to find Doc, telling him he is from the future and is seeking help for returning to 1985.
Doc explains that the only available power source capable of generating 1.21 gigawatts of energy is a bolt of lightning.
Marty shows Doc a flyer he received in 1985, which states that lightning will strike the courthouse clock tower the following Saturday at 10:04 pm.
Doc makes plans to harness the lightning strike to power the DeLorean's flux capacitor.
When they examine a fading photograph of Marty with his siblings, they determine that Marty has prevented his parents from meeting, jeopardizing his family's existence.

Marty makes several attempts to set George up with Lorraine.
When Lorraine makes a date with Marty for the upcoming school dance, Marty plans to have George attend the dance as well and "rescue" Lorraine from Marty's inappropriate advances in a car.
The plan goes awry when a drunken Biff unexpectedly shows up, pulls Marty from the car, and attempts to force himself on Lorraine.
George arrives to rescue her from Marty but instead finds Biff.
Standing up to him for the first time, George knocks Biff out.
A smitten Lorraine follows George to the dance floor, where they kiss for the first time, ensuring Marty's existence.

Marty arrives at the clock tower, where Doc is making final preparations.
Doc discovers a letter Marty had written to warn him of his impending 1985 murder and tears it up, fearing it will lead to altering the future.
Marty successfully returns to 1985 and, although he arrives ten minutes earlier than his original departure to warn Doc, he does not get to the mall in time to prevent him from being shot.
Doc, still alive thanks to a bulletproof vest, reveals that he had repaired the letter and read it.

Doc drops Marty off at his house and travels 30 years into the future.
Marty awakens the next morning to find his family changed; Lorraine is physically fit, a self-confident George is a successful science fiction author, Dave is a white-collar worker, and Linda no longer has trouble finding boyfriends.
George and Lorraine now have a closer relationship, while Biff has become an auto detailer who is on good terms with the McFly family.
As Marty reunites with his girlfriend Jennifer Parker, Doc arrives insisting they accompany him to the future to sort out a problem with their future children.
Marty and Jennifer enter the DeLorean with Doc and depart for the future.