Evan Treborn frequently suffers from blackouts, often at moments of high stress.
As a young child (played by Logan Lerman) and adolescent (played by John Patrick Amedori), Evan suffered many severe sexual and psychological traumas.
These traumas include being coerced to take part in child pornography by neighbour George Miller (Eric Stoltz) (father of Kayleigh and Tommy); being nearly strangled to death by his institutionalized, mentally ill father, Jason Treborn (Callum Keith Rennie), who is then killed in front of him by guards; murdering a mother and her infant daughter while playing with dynamite with his friends; and seeing his dog being burned alive by Tommy.

Seven years later, while entertaining a girl in his dorm room, he realizes that when he reads from his adolescent journals, he can travel back in time and is able to redo parts of his past.
His time traveling episodes account for the frequent blackouts he experienced as a child.
However, there are consequences to his revised choices of early actions that propagate forward in time to his present life.
For example, editing his personal time-line leads to alternative futures in which he finds himself, variously, a college student in a fraternity, an inmate imprisoned for murdering Tommy, and an amputee.
His efforts are driven by the desire to undo the most unpleasant events of his childhood which coincide with his mysterious blackouts, including saving Kayleigh from being molested by her father and from being tormented by her brother Tommy.

The actions he takes, and enables others to take during his blackouts, change the timeline in each new future where he awakes.
As he continues to do this, he realizes that, even though his intentions are good, his actions have unforeseen consequences.
Moreover, the assimilation of dozens of years' worth of new memories from the alternative timelines causes him brain damage and severe nosebleeds.
Ultimately, he decides that his attempts to alter the past end up only harming those he cares about, and thinks that the main cause of everyone's suffering in all the different timelines is himself.

Evan purposely travels back in time one final time to the day he first meets Kayleigh as a child.
He intentionally upsets her so that she will choose to live with her mother, in a different neighborhood, instead of with her father when they divorce.
She and her brother are never subjected to a destructive upbringing and go on to be successful in life, at the cost of Evan's acquaintance with her.

In the very last scene, set eight years later in New York City, an adult Evan passes by Kayleigh on the street.
Though a brief look of recognition passes over Kayleigh's face, it quickly fades as she walks away without talking to Evan, confirming that she does not know him.