In the distant future, the transport ship Hunter-Gratzner, with its crew and passengers in cryo-stasis chambers, passes through a comet's tail while on autopilot.
Debris from the comet ruptures the hull and kills some of its crew, including the captain.
The remaining crew is awakened, and docking pilot Carolyn Fry (Radha Mitchell) and her co-pilot, Greg Owens (Simon Burke), awake in time to attempt to land the ship on a nearby planet.
Fry wants to dump the passenger compartment to save the ship and herself, but Owens stops her.
The ship crashes on the surface, killing Owens.
Fry joins with the surviving ten passengers, among them the Muslim Imam (Keith David), a young boy named Jack (Rhiana Griffith), and William J. Johns (Cole Hauser), who appears to be a cop.
Johns discovers that another passenger, the convict Richard B. Riddick (Vin Diesel), has escaped.

The group explores the planet, and find it is surrounded by three suns that keep it in perpetual daylight.
They come upon an abandoned human geological research settlement, with supplies of water and a spacecraft, but lacking power cells.
They plan to return to the crashed ship to collect its power cells, but one survivor is killed before they can.
Riddick is discovered and captured by Johns, and Fry discovers vicious winged hunters, living in a cave, that are photosensitive and can only survive in the dark.
Johns believes that the population of the settlement was killed by the creatures, and releases Riddick, believing him to be a far lesser threat than the creatures.
Riddick reveals that Johns is actually a morphine-addicted mercenary, who had captured him for a bounty.
As they prepare to leave the settlement, they discover that the planet undergoes a month long eclipse every twenty-two years, due to start shortly.

The group returns to the wreckage to collect the power cells, but before they do so the eclipse begins, and the creatures emerge from their underground dens.
Riddick, who has the ability to see in the darkness, takes control, ordering them to collect all the light sources to ward away the creatures.
The group initially works together, but the tension causes panic, and several of the survivors are killed.
Riddick reveals that Jack is a girl and is currently menstruating; the scent of her blood is leading the creatures to them.
Johns suggests using Jack as bait to lure the predators away; Riddick decides on "bigger bait" and a fight breaks out.
He badly wounds Johns and leaves him to the creatures.
Fry, Jack, and Imam take shelter in a cave near the settlement, which Riddick seals to protect them from the creatures.
He then proceeds with the cells.

Fry arrives and discovers Riddick ready to take off in the shuttle by himself.
She begs him to stay, revealing that she had been ready to ditch the other passengers before to save herself.
Riddick initially declines, urging her to go with him.
They argue and he asks if she is ready to die for the others, and when she says yes, he relents and returns with her to rescue them.
On the way back, Riddick is injured and Fry goes back for him.
Just as she finds him, she is impaled by one of the creatures and dragged away.
Recognizing her sacrifice, Riddick returns to Imam and Jack, who are waiting in the ship.
Riddick waits to start the engines until the outside of the ship is surrounded by creatures, and then fires it up, burning many to death and gaining some measure of justice for Fry.
As they enter space, Riddick tells the others that, should they encounter any law enforcement personnel, they should "Tell 'em Riddick's dead.
He died somewhere on that planet."