Rachel Lapp (McGillis), a young Amish widow, and her 8-year-old son Samuel (Haas) are traveling by train to visit Rachel's sister.
At the 30th Street Station in Philadelphia, Samuel witnesses a murder.
Detective John Book (Ford) is assigned to the case and he and his partner, Sergeant Elton Carter (Jennings), question Samuel.
Samuel is unable to identify the perpetrator from mug shots or a police lineup, but notices a newspaper clipping with a picture of narcotics officer James McFee (Glover) and recognizes him as one of the killers.
Book remembers that McFee was previously responsible for a drug raid where evidence had mysteriously disappeared.

Book confides his suspicions to his superior officer, Chief Paul Schaeffer (Sommer), who advises Book to keep the case secret so they can work out how to move forward.
When Book returns home, he is ambushed by McFee and badly wounded before McFee escapes.
Since only Schaeffer had been told, Book realizes Schaeffer is also corrupt and must have warned McFee.

Book calls Carter and orders him to remove the Lapp file from the records.
He then hides his car and uses his sister's to return Rachel and Samuel to Lancaster County.
After the Lapps' safe arrival at home, Book passes out in his vehicle in front of their farm.

Impressing upon them that hospitalization will allow the police to find him, Book is gradually returned to health by the Lapps.
As Book heals, he begins to develop feelings for Rachel.
The Lapps' neighbor, Daniel Hochleitner (Godunov) had hoped to court her and this becomes a cause of friction.
Later Rachel and John are caught dancing, and Rachel’s father-in-law, Eli (Rubes), takes her aside and warns that if she continues she could be shunned by the community.
Rachel feels she has done nothing wrong.

Schaeffer, McFee, and a third corrupt officer, "Fergie" Ferguson (MacInnes), intensify their efforts to find Book.
In town, Hochleitner and the other Amish men are harassed by locals.
Breaking with the Amish tradition of nonviolence, Book retaliates.
The fight is reported to the police, and the news reaches Schaeffer.

John subsequently comes upon Rachel as she bathes, and she stands half-naked before him, but he walks away.
The two realize they are in love, but because of the publicity the fight has gotten, Book knows he must leave.
Upset, Rachel removes her bonnet, and she and John embrace.

The corrupt officers arrive at the Lapp farm and search for Book.
Book orders Samuel to run to the neighbors for safety.
Book tricks Fergie into the corn silo and suffocates him under tons of corn.
He retrieves Fergie's shotgun and kills McFee.
Schaeffer then forces Rachel and Eli out of the house at gunpoint; Eli signs to Samuel (who had returned unseen) to ring the warning bell.
Although Schaeffer forces Book to surrender, the loud clanging summons other Amish.
With so many witnesses, Schaeffer realizes he cannot escape, and gives up.
He is taken by local police.

As Book prepares to leave, he says goodbye to Samuel, Rachel, and Eli in turn.
Driving away, he passes Hochleitner, and exchanges a wave of farewell.