Chili Palmer, a loan shark based in Miami, clashes with another mobster, Ray "Bones" Barboni.
After several confrontations, Barboni tries to get his boss, Jimmy Capp involved.
Capp refuses.
When Palmer's boss, Momo, dies of a heart attack, he finds himself working for Barboni, whose first order is for Palmer to collect an $18,000 debt owed by Leo Devoe.
Devoe was believed to have been killed in a fatal commercial airliner crash, but had actually gotten off the plane, and failed to re-board.
After the plane crash, Devoe's wife identifies his personal effects, and the airline offers her a check for $300,000.
When Chili visits her, she tells him Leo is still alive, and partying in Las Vegas.

While in Vegas, Palmer picks up a job from a casino manager to collect a debt from B-movie producer Harry Zimm.
When Palmer locates Zimm at the home of actress Karen Flores, Zimm agrees to pay the money he owes in 90 days.
Palmer then pitches a movie idea: a thinly veiled story of his own recent life.
Zimm is interested in the concept, but he has financial problems: He owes $200,000 to drug dealer Bo Catlett.
Palmer says he will help Zimm take care of it.
Palmer tracks down Devoe and collects the $300,000 in insurance money.
Palmer returns to Karen's house the next day, and asks Karen out.
Karen is the ex-wife of actor Martin Weir, who Palmer wants to star in his life story.
With Karen, Palmer pitches Weir the story idea.
Weir seems interested.

When Catlett visits Zimm for a progress report about the film he is supposedly financing, Palmer tells Catlett that Zimm has a project he needs to finish first.
Catlett wants to produce the new film, Mr. Lovejoy, but Zimm claims he cannot do that.
Catlett and his sidekick Ronnie then threaten Zimm, saying they want their money back.
Zimm calls Ray Barboni in Miami, and tells him Chili has recovered the money from Leo Devoe.
Barboni flies to Los Angeles, confronts Zimm in his office, and beats him when he does not reveal the location of Chili and the money.
When Ronnie walks in, Ray shoots him, then puts the gun in Zimm's hand.
Doris, Zimm's girlfriend, calls Karen and tells her that Zimm is in the hospital.

Desperate for money, Catlett kidnaps Karen and demands the money that Chili has gotten back from Devoe.
Though Chili gives him the money, Catlett reneges on their deal.
Catlett's henchman, Bear, starts beating Chili on Catlett's balcony.
In the struggle, Catlett is pushed over the balcony and falls to his death.
At his hotel, Barboni confronts Palmer, finds an airport locker key, and assumes the money is hidden in the locker.
At the airport, upon opening the locker, Barboni is confronted by police and arrested.

On a studio set, Harvey Keitel is playing Ray Barboni and Martin Weir is Palmer.
Penny Marshall is directing, with Zimm as executive producer, Chili and Karen as co-producers.
Bear appears as a technical consultant.