Los Angeles Police Department Detective James Carter (Chris Tucker) is on vacation in Hong Kong, visiting his friend, Hong Kong Police Force Chief Inspector Lee (Jackie Chan).
The fun is put on hold when a bomb explodes at the United States Consulate General, killing two U.S. custom agents inside.
[4] Inspector Lee is assigned to the case, which becomes personal when it is discovered that it somehow involves Ricky Tan (John Lone), his late police officer father's former partner.
Tan, who was suspected, but never proven, of having a role in Lee's father's death, is now a leader of the Triads.

The United States Secret Service, led by Agent Sterling (Harris Yulin), and the Hong Kong Police Force soon get into a fight over the jurisdiction of the case.
Lee and Carter separately make their way to Tan's yacht where he is holding a dinner party.
Tan scolds his underling, Hu Li (Zhang Ziyi), who then leaves as Lee and Carter confront Tan.
Just as Ricky Tan asks for protection, Hu Li shoots him and makes her escape in the chaos.
An angry Sterling holds Lee responsible for Tan's death, and orders him off the case.
Carter is ordered to be flown back to Los Angeles for involving himself.
However, Lee and Carter return to L.A. together.

On the plane, Carter tells Lee that in every large criminal operation, there is a rich white man behind it and that man is Steven Reign (Alan King), an L.A. hotel billionaire whom Carter saw acting suspiciously on Tan's boat.
They set up camp outside the Reign Towers, spotting a sexy U.S. Secret Service agent named Isabella Molina (Roselyn Sánchez).
After a few misunderstandings, Molina tells the two men that she is undercover, looking into Reign's money laundering of $100 million in superdollars (high grade counterfeit $100 bills).

Lee and Carter pay a visit to Kenny (Don Cheadle), an ex-con known to Carter who runs a gambling den in the back of his Chinese restaurant.
He tells them that a usually broke customer recently came into his establishment with a suspicious amount of hundred-dollar bills.
Carter confirms that they are Reign's counterfeits and they trace the money back to a bank.
The Triads are waiting for them and knock the two cops unconscious, with Molina looking on.
After arriving in Las Vegas, Lee and Carter wake up inside one of the Triads' trucks and escape.
After finding out where they are, they realize that Reign is laundering the $100 million through the new Red Dragon Casino (filmed at the now demolished Desert Inn).

At the Red Dragon, Lee and Carter split up.
Lee attempts to find the engraving plates which were used to make the counterfeit money, while Carter makes a distraction to help Lee sneak past the security.
However, Hu Li captures Lee and takes him to a room where it is revealed that Ricky Tan faked his death.
When Tan departs, Molina tries to arrest Hu Li unsuccessfully.
Carter continues to fight Hu Li and knocks her out, while Lee heads to the penthouse to prevent Tan from escaping with the plates.
In the penthouse, Reign opens the safe and takes the plates, running into Tan as he leaves.
Reign tries to back out of the deal but Tan kills him with a knife.
Lee and Carter arrive to have a tense standoff, where Tan admits that he killed Lee's father.

Tan is killed when he tries to break free and Lee kicks him out of the window.
Hu Li enters with a time bomb forcing Lee and Carter to grab onto the decoration wires.
The two escape on the makeshift zipline as Hu Li dies in her own explosion.
Later, at the airport, Molina thanks Lee for his work on the case, and she kisses him for a short time, while Carter watches from afar.
Having originally planned to go their separate ways, Lee and Carter change their mind and head to New York City.