
This is Google's cache of http://www.awesomefilm.com/script/LAWNDOGS.htm. It is a snapshot of the page as it appeared on 15 Jan 2014 12:52:48 GMT. The current page could have changed in the meantime. Learn moreTip: To quickly find your search term on this page, press Ctrl+F or ⌘-F (Mac) and use the find bar.Text-only version
 
LAWN DOGS script



  
  
    
  
    
      "LAWN 
      DOGS"
      The following 
      script is taken directly from the movie directed by John Duigan and 
      starring Mischa Barton as the excitable 10-year old Devon 
      Stockard.
  
    
      
      SCENE ONE opens 
      on a field of grass with DEVON in the background. DEVON 
      (voice-over): Once upon a time in a far off land lived a girl and her 
      mother and father. Their village was surrounded by a high wall. Outside 
      the wall was the forest, home of Babi Yaga, the witch. Babi Yaga had iron 
      teeth to cut through trees. His legs were chicken legs and he ate little 
      girls for dinner. But inside the wall, the girl was safe. SCENE 
      TWO TRENT is mowing the lawn and stops for a breath. BILLY aims a gun 
      his face. BILLY: Stick 'em up. SCENE THREE DEVON is 
      placing raisons in unbaked cookies. Her parents, MORTON and CLARE are at 
      the kitchen counter making a list. MORTON: Try the Madison house 
      first. Then the Engers. Scratch the Crutchners, they're in Rhode Island 
      for the weekend. CLARE: Humm, that's the Loflins. The Crutchner's 
      are in town. MORTON: Don't forget to ring the bell three or four 
      times at the Neill's at the Birch Grove Court. His wife's almost deaf. 
      CLARE: And on the school board. MORTON: Everyone will get 
      a taste of the Stockards, yum, yum. DEVON: (a fly lands on one of 
      the cookies. She smashes the fly into the center and turns to her parents) 
      These are ready. SCENE FOUR BILLY is still banging away at 
      Trent. From offscreen we here his mother say "Billy, Snacktime!" He runs 
      off, allowing his hat to fly off his head. Trent swings his mower around 
      and runs over it, creating a burst of confetti. SCENE FIVE In 
      front of the Stockard's home. CLARE: Don't lose the money you get. 
      MORTON:Everyone knows how to smile, remember. CLARE: Your 
      photo will be in the paper. MORTON: If she sells the most bags. 
      CLARE: Oh, she will. She's a perfect little saleswoman. 
      MORTON: Make a good impression, honey. We're still the new kids on 
      the block. Off to work we go. CLARE: Don't fiddle with your socks; 
      they're just new. MORTON: Be careful on the roads. CLARE: 
      Watch for cars. sweetie; look left and right. MORTON: Now get 
      going. CLARE: Whatever you do, don't go outside the gate, 
      sweetheart. MORTON: Daddy loves you. (DEVON starts to walk 
      off and passes the neighborhood cop, NASH) NASH: Devon Stockard. 
      Now there's a girl who's out to conquer the world. You want me to buy a 
      bag of those cookies from you? DEVON: You're not on my list. 
      SCENE SIX TRENT approches a customer's door and knocks. 
      MAN (from inside): Can I help you? TRENT: Uh, yeah, I 
      finished your lawn, sir. MAN: Already? TRENT: I did a good 
      job. Short back and sides, got all the weeds, sir. (door opens, man pays 
      him) Thank-you. (door closes) Sir, do you think I could use your bathroom 
      facilities?...Guess not. TRENT goes to his truck and once inside 
      relieves himself in a Big Gulp cup. He cranks the engine and nothing 
      happens. He pops the hood to check the engine and NASH steps up. 
      NASH: Can I help you son? TRENT: No, I can get it, thanks. 
      NASH: Just tell me when. TRENT: Just a minute. Okay. 
      NASH: Nothing. TRENT: Alright, try it again. (the truck 
      starts and NASH refuses to get out) NASH: Get in, not for long. 
      Business must be good. TRENT: I'm making plenty. NASH: You 
      live close by here? TRENT: Not that close by. NASH: Me 
      either. Whatcha got in the cooler. TRENT: Soda pop? NASH: 
      Shit. I was hoping it was ice cold beer. It's hotter than a cat's crotch 
      today, isn't it? TRENT: Yeah, and I stink. I need a shower. 
      NASH: I used to mow lawns when I was a kid. After a while, it gets 
      to be nothing in the world but lawns. Green lawns. And the best damn thing 
      about lawns is they always grow back. Let's not be in here past five 
      unless you clear it by me first. NASH gets out, TRENT slides over 
      and drives off. He takes his shirt off, reaches into the cooler to find an 
      ice cold beer, and then stops his truck on a one lane bridge. He gets out, 
      ignores the traffic, and takes his pants off. He stands on teh edge, 
      buck-naked, and tehn dives into the river below. He returns to the truck 
      and drives off. WATCHER: I want to know if hes gonna be here next 
      Friday. SCENE SEVEN DEVON approaches a driveway leading into a 
      thick woods. DEVON: At the edge of a big dark forest lived a girl 
      an her mother and father. One day her mother said 'Girl, I shall make you 
      a batch of cookies and you must go and sell them in the forest.' Now the 
      girl was not stupid. SHe knew they were trying to get rid of her, but the 
      father said, 'Don't worry, dear.' So she went. The girl walked on. (she 
      finds a clearing with a fire pit, a dog house--empty--and a trailor) She 
      came to a clearing in the forest. In the middle of the clearing, there was 
      a hut and a very skinny dog. The dog was starving. The girl said to the 
      dog 'You look hungry.' So she fed him. Babi Yaga's house...(she knocks, 
      nothing. She opens the door and walks in. A truck door slams outside and 
      she tries to run, but trips and lands face first on the floor. The door 
      opens and TRENT looks in) Hello. I'm Devon Thompkins Stockard Girl Ranger. 
      I'm selling thumbprint cookies. All proceeds go to the Pine Cone Charity 
      House of Mackay County. (TRENT closes the door. DEVON gets up and goes to 
      meet him) That a '65 Ford? 65 of 100 is the best motor Ford ever made. Is 
      it 300 Trig? TRENT: Yeah. DEVON: My uncle had a truck like 
      that. He was russian, from Indiana, born on the wrong side of the train. 
      TRENT: Wrong side of the tracks. DEVON: Right. He said the 
      mounts were going bad on the truck. So one night, he drove it into Spoon 
      River. Never drove back out. TRENT: What a shame. DEVON: 
      That's what my aunt said. TRENT: You can rebuild mounts. That's 
      what I did. DEVON: Can you take me for a ride in it? 
      TRENT: I don't wanna buy any cookies. This is private property. Go 
      home. SCENE EIGHT (dinner time, Stockard's home) 
      CLARE: Four bags? Does that include the two we bought? 
      MORTON: You'll have to do better than that. CLARE: How far 
      did you get down the list? MORTON: It all depends on your face, 
      sweetheart. It is not what you got in the bag they wanna buy. It's your 
      happy face. For those who weren't home today, try tomorrow. CLARE: 
      Don't forget to say it's for the charity house. MORTON: It be a 
      shame if some other little girl got her picture in the paper. 
      CLARE: You'll do better tomorrow, sweetheart. MORTON: Give 
      me a kiss. Goodnight, sweetheart. CLARE: I'll be up in a little 
      while. I changed your doctor's appointment for the day after tomorrow, 
      9:30AM. (Devon exits) MORTON: Oh, I like to see her happy for a 
      change. CLARE: Well, she's going through a stage; it's her age. 
      MORTON: Yeah, all we get is mope and complain. Imagine what she'll 
      be like in a few years. CLARE: She hardly complains. 
      MORTON: She could at least pretend to be happy. I mean when I was 
      a kid, that's what you did for your parents. CLARE: We've only 
      been setled for a couple of months. Give it time. She's met that one 
      girl...Donna. MORTON: Oh, I feel sorry for that Donna-kid's 
      father. Imagine, having a daughter with a face like a possum. 
      CLARE: She's got a lovely voice. MORTON: Well, if I'm 
      gonna have a voice at all we gotta start pushing. Elections for the county 
      board are this fall. CLARE: That will be four boards you're going 
      after. You'll have to be careful yu don't lose your own voice. 
      MORTON: Not if you want a real say in this county, in this suburb, 
      right here where we live, then I've gotta become the board man, the model 
      of citizen involvement. Isn't that why we moved back here? SCENE 
      NINE DEVON gets out of bed and opens her window. She climbs out on the 
      roof and then raises her nightgown up and over her head. She lets the wind 
      grab it and then crouches in nothing but her panties. Then she turns to 
      the moon and howls. DEVON: Owwwwwwww! Arwwwww! SCENE TEN 
      DEVON is sets off again to sell cookies and grabs a few encouraging 
      words from her father. MORTON: I want us all to make a home here, 
      Dev. Want you to find lots of new friends. Popular girls are never bored 
      or boring. Look honey, this is the new Dev, right here. You don't have to 
      tell your new friends anything about the old Dev if you don't want to. And 
      the new Dev's, she's raring to go, isn't she? DEVON: Thanks, dad. 
      (walks away, only to confront Billy.) BILLY: Hey! Halt, squawl!(He 
      jabs a gun in her face and she grabs it, swings it around and puts it in 
      his mouth) DEVON: You'd be doing the community a favor. (she walks 
      away) BILLY: Bang! SCENE ELEVEN CLARE is in her 
      garder, weeding, when two young boys about 24 years old each step up 
      BRETT: Hello, Mrs. Stockard. CLARE: Hello, Brett. 
      BRETT: You should call Spray Green Lawn Service. It'll wipe those 
      weeds out in a couple of hours. CLARE: I like to work up a little 
      sweat. BRETT: You know, if you leave the root in, it'll grow back. 
      CLARE: Just ripping their heads off is more fun. Would you like to 
      lend a hand? BRETT: And do something useful this summer? 
      SEAN: Sounds criminal to me. CLARE: You should both have 
      summer jobs; keep your minds sharp. BRETT: If we had jobs, who'd 
      help you weed? (BRETT kneels down and begins pulling up the grass around 
      the hem of CLARE's dress. Slowly, his hands move underneath the dress) 
      SEAN: I'll just let you two finish up here. SCENE TWELVE 
      DEVON approaches TRENT's trailor. She peeps in the window to find 
      TRENT and some other woman having sex. She laughs, says "Stop it." and 
      DEVON falls from her perch. Seconds later, TRENT and the girl exit the 
      trailor) TRENT: Hey, isn't that my belt? PAM: Found it on 
      the dresser. TRENT: But how am I supposed to keep my pants up? 
      PAM: You'll think of something (she jumps on her bike) 
      TRENT: Hey, uh, Pammie, you sure you don't want a ride. Country 
      Club, Stables, Tennis Courts? PAM: No thanks. I can make it. And 
      it's Pam, Pam Gregory. C-ya, trailor man. TRENT: Hey, I'm not 
      always gonna live in a soup can. Next year I'm gonna be at the white 
      house. (he goes back inside) DEVON: Babi Yaga went inside and put 
      a huge kettle on to boil. The dog told the girl to run cause Babi Yaga was 
      going to cook her, but she knew she could never outrun Babi Yaga. When 
      they sent the girl into the forest, she was kind to the thing she found. 
      She found a tree and dressed it up in ribbons. TRENT: Trees don't 
      give a shit about people. (TRENT exits his trailor) DEVON: Was 
      that your girlfriend? TRENT: Look, I've got some lawns to take 
      care of, so... DEVON: Can you climb a tree? I'd clilmb it myself, 
      but I'm not supposed to strain. TRENT: I'm telling you to leave. 
      DEVON: Okay, I'll leave. But only if you help me hang the rest of 
      these ribbons. TRENT: I don't like ribbons, and I got me a 
      hangover. (he stares at her and then gives in. He begins to climb, tying 
      the red ribbons on the limbs) DEVON: You know I almost 
      died...twice. TRENT: Climbing a tree? DEVON: No. 
      TRENT: I almost died, too. DEVON: How? TRENT: 
      Shotgun. You? DEVON: It's a lemon, my heart. You know how your's 
      goes de-dum de-dum de-dum? TRENT: Yeah. DEVON: Well mine 
      goes de-de-dum de-de-dum de-de-dum. TRENT: So are you dying or 
      what? DEVON: Not any more. They put in an extra pumping station. 
      TRENT: Nice. DEVON: Can I see your scar? TRENT: 
      It's ugly. DEVON: Cool. TRENT: Don't you have any friends 
      your age? Kids you can hang out with and stuff? DEVON: I don't 
      like kids. They smell like TV. And they talk too fast. Higher, go higher. 
      (Trent goes higher as next step breaks a branch causing him to fall) 
      TRENT: Shit! (he hits the ground as DEVON escapes into the 
      doghouse) Hooooooo!Ooooohhh! Hey, I could be dying over here. (she runs 
      out to see if he's alive) DEVON: Is your heart going de-de-dum 
      de-de-dum de-de-dum? TRENT: Something like that. Hey, come here. 
      Get me a beer out of my truck. It's in the cooler and the cigerettes are 
      on the dash. (DEVON runs to his truck and jumps in the driver seat. She 
      grabs the steering wheel, pretending to be dragging when TRENT moans a 
      second time) OOHHHHHH! (she grabs the beer and pack of cigerettes and runs 
      back to his rescue) DEVON: Where did you get shot? TRENT: 
      In the gut. DEVON: By a robber? TRENT: Look, I have to do 
      three maybe four lawns. You're from Camelot, right? DEVON: Camelot 
      Gardens, yup. Over the hills and far away. (they drive to Camelot Gardens. 
      TRENT stops at the gate to let her off) TRENT: It's better if I 
      let you off here. DEVON: Yeah, I know. SCENE THIRTEEN 
      Barbecue at the Stockards. DEVON is playing with TRACKER, a dog, while 
      MORTON attends the grill. The whole neighborhood is here, socializing with 
      each other. DEVON: Tracker! SEAN: Tracker! MORTON: 
      Leave the dog be, honey. (DEVON wlaks away while MORTON turns to BRETT) 
      Would you go tell her we're about ready for the salad. BRETT: 
      Alright. (he enters the kitchen) They need the salad to start. 
      CLARE: Yes, well, I think we should have that ready in about four 
      minutes. What do you say? (DEVON approaches the kitchen to find her mother 
      holding the salad in the air. Sticking out from her dress are two legs, 
      BRETT's. DEVON walks away, laughs, and the scene cuts to CLARE bringing 
      the salad out) The salad has arrive! (TRENT approaches MORTON, passes Pam 
      on the way) TRENT: Hey. PAM: Hi. MORTON: Oh, 
      hello. Can I help you? TRENT: I finished your lawn sir. I did the 
      trimming as well and I blew the drive, short back and sides. 
      MORTON: Oh yes, we heard you loud and clear. Worked up an 
      appetite,son. Devon, throw a couple of hotdogs on the grille for this 
      young man. TRENT: Oh, no thank-you sir, but I better...I better 
      get back to work. MORTON: Nonsense, go take a seat over there. 
      (TRENT sits and BRETT sits next to him) BRETT: Hey, I heard a 
      rumor that Pamela Gregory screwed you last night. Now tell me that isn't 
      true. What would you and her possibly have in common? (SEAN joins in) 
      SEAN: Ah, Brett. Putting your social skills to work again. 
      BRETT: Yes, I am. So whatcha gonna be when you grow up, huh? 
      Landscape designer? Conservationist? Hey, what colleges have you applied 
      to, boy? SEAN: Real charmer, isn't he? BRETT: What about 
      computer design? That's a solid choice. Everybody's going in for that 
      these days. Let's talk about exotic careers; high-diving for instance, say 
      from bridges. Say single-lane bridges. MORTON: Hotdogs coming up. 
      Onions and ketchup for you, right? TRENT: Oh, thank-you sir. (NASH 
      takes his turn) NASH: You wouldn't happen to know anything about 
      all those lampshades that keep disappearing around here, would you? 
      TRENT: I can't help you, sir. NASH: It's the funniest 
      thing. I mean what could a person do with so many lampshades? 
      BRETT: Sell 'em. (after the laught dies out, TRENT returns to 
      MORTON) TRENT: Sir, for your lawn? MORTON: Oh yeah. Here 
      you go, a 20, there. TRENT: You're just ten dollars shy here, Mr. 
      Stockard. MORTON: Just what are you saying. TRENT: I'm 
      saying just...you're ten dollars shy of what we agreed on. MORTON: 
      I just gave you a couple of hotdogs, didn't I. (more laughter) Just 
      pulling your leg there, son. Here you go. Alright, meat's on. Bring me a 
      beer, man! (MORTON throws the steaks on the grille while TRENT walks away. 
      SEAN runs to catch up) SEAN: Hey, McKay County School. Sean 
      Torrels. Third grade, remember? TRENT: No. SEAN: I was 
      only there a few months. My parents pulled me out and put me in private. 
      TRENT: Oh yeah yeah, your dad drove that...that blue BMW. 
      SEAN: Did he? I don't remember. TRENT: I remember. It was 
      the only new car in the school parking lot that winter. SEAN: We 
      were friends, right? TRENT: Nah, just in the same class. (TRENT 
      reaches out and pokes his finger in a hole in SEAN's shirt) Should know 
      better to come to a party dressed like shit. In third grade you had better 
      taste. (SEAN takes TRENT's hand and holds it) SEAN: My bet was 
      that you could of made a good surgeon. TRENT: Like your daddy? 
      SEAN: You got the hands for it. SCENE FOURTEEN DEVON 
      has just witnessed this entire scene, the laughing, the ridicule, the 
      embarassment, and decides to get revenge. She dumps TRENT's hotdogs in her 
      father's toolbox first. Then she sits on top of her father's truck near 
      the edge. She slides her panties down and begins to urinate down the 
      windshield. Then she climbs inside the truck and turns the wipers on, 
      smearing her revenge. She opens the glove box and pulls out a gun, points 
      it at the windshield and says DEVON: Go ahead, make my day. (BRETT 
      scares her) BRETT: BANG! Oh, daddy's gun, huh? (he takes the gun) 
      That's pretty dangerous. (he takes one bullet out and touches it to 
      DEVON's lips) You ever wonder what one of these might feel like going in. 
      (Slowly, he moves the bullet down her chin and to her chest) You smell 
      like your mom. (he inches her button-up shirt open) DEVON: Get 
      out! (DEVON slides to the other side to get out of the truck) 
      BRETT: Hey! Sshhhh! SCENE FIFTEEN DEVON packs her 
      suitcase and rushes downstairs to see mom and dad cleaning up the dishes. 
      DEVON: Mom, Tracy asked me if I could spend the night. 
      MORTON: Tracy who? DEVON: Tracy Keller, you know. I met 
      her at the picnic last week. You liked her parents. Her dad's with the 
      fedearl security bank. MORTON: Is he? CLARE: Alright, but 
      later on. First, you need to get the dolls out of the bath and their arms 
      out of the sink. DEVON: Okay. (she drops the suitcase and rushes 
      upstairs to clean up) CLARE: See, what did I tell you. She's made 
      a friend already. Just a matter of time. SCENE SIXTEEN CLARE 
      drives up to Tracy's house and lets DEVON off. CLARE begins to get out as 
      DEVON stops her and rushes up to the house. DEVON: Don't wait! 
      CLARE: Can't I come in with you? DEVON: No, I'll look like 
      a kid, okay. CLARE: Alright. DEVON: Call you in a few 
      hours. CLARE: Try to have fun, sweetheart. DEVON: Have a 
      nice evening. (DEVON approaches the door, stops, turn to watch her mother 
      disappear into the distance, and then takes off running. She returns to 
      TRENT's trailor just as TRENT and PAM step outside after another session 
      of wild lovemaking) TRENT:...but, my tank's on empty. PAM: 
      I'm not surprised. I'd rather bike; it's just up the road. TRENT: 
      Hey Pam, when you gonna give me your number? PAM: What do you need 
      my number for; you haven't got a phone. TRENT: So, I got a 
      quarter. PAM: Oh, lucky man. So I'll see you around. 
      TRENT: Yeah sure, same time next week. PAM: Um, maybe. My 
      schedule's kinda wacky, but I'll drop by when I can. TRENT: Hey, I 
      want to be introduced to your mother, and your father, any dogs, cats, or 
      canaries you live with. PAM: Right. I'll see you around. 
      TRENT: I'm sure they'll love to meet me. (Pam exits. TRENT goes 
      back inside and sits at a table to clean his chainsaw. DEVON enters and 
      approaches him) DEVON: Hi. (she sits in front of him) What did it 
      feel like when you got shot? TRENT: It feels like getting shot. 
      DEVON: Could you feel the bullet go in? TRENT: Don't 
      remember. DEVON: I would of remembered if it happened to me. 
      TRENT: (cuts finger on chain) Shit! DEVON: Got any 
      whiskey? It stings, but it kills the germs. TRENT: No. (DEVON 
      examines the wound and then sucks on the end of his finger. He jerks his 
      hand back, stunned) DEVON: You supposed to suck the poison out or 
      you die. TRENT: What poison? DEVON: I read it in a book on 
      snakes. TRENT: Snake didn't bite me. DEVON: And then the 
      next time one does, you'll know what to do. I'm not afraid of blood. Every 
      time they open me up I lost a bathtub full. How much blood did you lose 
      when you got shot? TRENT: I don't know. DEVON: Did you 
      nearly die. TRENT: Yeah, I guess I did. (he gets up to find a 
      bandage) Blue was drinking with me and Jeff and we run out of beer. Pulled 
      over at the Five-Star and there was these three J-Town cops slurping down 
      donuts and coffee. I know them and they sure know me. So, I'm paying for 
      my twelve of Bud and I turn to the three of them and I let out this killer 
      burp. I mean this son of a bitch was as loud as a shotgun. Kinda ruined 
      their snack, I guess. So, five minutes later they pull us over. Jeff gets 
      scared. He makes a run for it, so now they think we got something to hide. 
      And they're whacking me with their sticks 'til finally I was able to punch 
      one of 'em and busted his nose and his buddy aims a shotgun at me. Bang, 
      bang, you're dead. Only I weren't. DEVON: Wow. What happened to 
      Jeff? TRENT: Jeff was okay. He got three months and I got six. Boy 
      I tell ya. DEVON: People say you're trash. TRENT: Yeah, I 
      guess they do. DEVON: I wouldn't like that. TRENT: You get 
      used to it. DEVON: My father says, if everyone worked hard, there 
      wouldn't be any poor people. You're a poor person, aren't you? He says 
      that anyone who works hard can be rich just like him. TRENT: 
      Sounds like you gotta smart daddy. DEVON: Trash is something you 
      put a lid on because it stinks. You don't smell that bad. TRENT: 
      (laughs wildly) That makes my day. The way I see it is you got people who 
      own lawns and you got people who mow 'em and they're never the same 
      people. (TRENT wlaks to the front door and walks out. DEVON follows) Okay, 
      it's time for you to get on home. DEVON: I told my mom I'd spend 
      the night at Tracy Keller's. Do you know Tracy Keller? TRENT: No. 
      DEVON: Neither do I. TRENT: Wait a minute... 
      DEVON: SO where do I sleep? TRENT: Go home. DEVON: 
      No. TRENT: Get outta here. Just go. What the hell you want from 
      me? What? What, huh? What! (He picks up his cooler) Is that what you want. 
      You can have it. anything you want here it's yours, take it. Okay? What's 
      with you? Curious? Just curious? When you got all that out there, 
      everything out there's yours. There's nothing here for you, you 
      understand? Go home. Go home. (TRENT goes back inside. He reaches under 
      the sink and pulls out a mason jar. He returns to the table and opens it, 
      taking out a wad of bills. He reaches into his pocket to produce today's 
      earnings and adds it to the pile. He flips through the stack (about two 
      grand easy) and returns the money to the jar. At that point, DEVON swings 
      down from a hole in his roof, hangs upside down and asks) DEVON: 
      You know where we can find two live chickens? SCENE SEVENTEEN 
      DEVON and TRENT are riding in the truck. TRENT: Why don't we 
      just drive to the supermarket? DEVON: They have to be fresh. The 
      one's at the supermarket have been frozen for years. Maybe longer. 
      TRENT: You know stealing livestock is a criminal offense. We could 
      go to jail. DEVON: We won't be stealing them. We'll just be 
      borrowing them and then we'll change our minds and eat them. Trust me. 
      (The scene changes to the outside of a chicken coop) Look, a chicken walk. 
      (DEVON crawls up and in to the coop. TRENT follows) Sshhh, they're trying 
      to sleep. (Just as TRENT stands up and surveys the area, DEVON screams) 
      COCK-A-DOODLE-DOO! (The chickens go crazy as TRENT and DEVON scramble to 
      catch one. DEVON grabs one by the neck) I caught one! (Now we're back in 
      the truck) Look's like your lucks changing, buddy. Just a few more minutes 
      'til the end of your life. (Another scene change. DEVON is standing at a 
      pay phone outside a convience store. A biker waits for the phone as TRENT 
      holds the chickens down) Um, Tracy's fine. We're having chicken for 
      dinner. Well, uh, her om can't come to the phone right now, she's having a 
      bath. (One of the chickens try to escape. TRENT grabs it and the crowing 
      begins as the other one alos tries to make a break for it) Gotta go mom, 
      Tracy's waving at me. (The chickens attack TRENT now) C-ya. Love you. Bye. 
      (Final scene change. The chickens are tied to the railing of the porch 
      while TRENT prepares the fire) Do you think if we met a hundred years ago, 
      we'd still end up as friends? TRENT: We're not friends. We're 
      hunters. So who's gonna kill the meat? DEVON: You do yours and 
      then I'll do mine. TRENT: Do you know how? DEVON: Not yet. 
      (The scene advances to a plate full of bones. DEVON picks up her chicken 
      feet and start to prounce around the fire ring) TRENT: If you 
      promise never to pull this one on me again, I'll let you sleep over. 
      Whatcha think your dad would do if he found out? DEVON: He'd cut 
      off my feet. TRENT: That's right. DEVON: And then he'd tie 
      you to a stake and burn you. (the chicken approach TRENT's arm) Babi Yaga 
      bonylegs--his teeth made of steel and he can bite through trees, and his 
      legs are like chicken legs. TRENT: Who is this Babi Yaga? 
      DEVON: A witch who lives in the forest. TRENT: I mean, 
      what's this monster stand for? DEVON: The moral of the story? 
      TRENT: Yeah. DEVON: For whatever's bad, I guess. SOmetimes 
      when it's dark, Babi Yaga goes out into the fields and a wild dog comes to 
      meet him. ANd then a big scary wind starts to blow and blow. 
      Hiiieeeeyyyyyuuuuuu! Hiiiiyyyuuuuuuu! Then Babi Yaga kills the dog with 
      his bare hands and east it. Then Babi Yaga sings and dances with his belly 
      full of dog meat and blood. Aye-aye-e-aye. Aye-aye-e-aye. (Scene changes 
      and DEVON is lying in Trent's bed while TRENT does his best to get 
      comfortable on the couch) Do you know how the girl escapes from Babi Yaga? 
      TRENT: No. DEVON: The starving dog she finds gives her a 
      magic comb and embroided towel. And the girl runs away through the forest. 
      And when Babi Yaga almost has her, the girl throws down the towel and a 
      great river springs up and Babi Yaga can't cross 'til he drives his cows 
      to drink up all the water. TRENT: Look, I've got to get up early, 
      okay. DEVON: When Babi Yaga's at her heels, the girl throws down 
      the comb and a great forest springs up behind her. TRENT: The end, 
      okay. SCENE EIGHTEEN MORTON and NASH inspect the street light 
      beside MORTON's driveway. The lamp is gone and the bulb is shattered. 
      NASH: That's the third one they got on your street this week. 
      TRENT: Someone's making fools of us. NASH: I've been 
      watching the lamps in this neighborhood at all hours. All hours. 
      MORTON: I don't like it one bit. We're insecure. (At this 
      point the scene changes to a river bank. A lamp flies into the screen and 
      shatters in the pile of other lampshades.) BILLY: Let's see some 
      blood on their chins! GO, bring in teh second squad! Go! We gotta fly to 
      Baghdad by dawn! (BILLY throws another lamp, watches is soraing through 
      the air) SCENE NINETEEN Outside TRENT's trailor. TRENT loads 
      his truck for his next job. DEVON: It won't take all day will it? 
      TRENT: It'll take as long as it takes. DEVON: Can I come? 
      I can help you. TRENT: I'll drop you off at the gates. 
      DEVON: (the truck stops at the gates and DEVON gets out with 
      TRENT. TRENT hauls her suitcase out of the bed and hands it to her) I can 
      pull weeds. TRENT: Nope, but I'll make you a deal. We can be 
      friends if you can keep it a secret. DEVON: What's wrong with you 
      and me being friends? TRENT: Well, for one thing, I'm a country 
      bumpkin, alright. I was born sucking on rat's guts and I'm a piss poor, 
      son of a bitch, do anything for a buck. (He picks her and throws her over 
      his shoulder) I slobber, and I spit, and I fart... DEVON: Hey! 
      Whatcha doing. Put me down! TRENT: And I eat little princesses 
      like you for breakfast. (he sits her down on top of the toolbox) 
      DEVON: I'm not a princess. TRENT: No, well, I'm still piss 
      poor. DEVON: Do you want me to feel sorry for you? TRENT: 
      I don't know. DEVON: Well, you can forget it. Polish my golden 
      slipper. TRENT: (licks the hem of his shirt and cleans her shoes) 
      Yes, ma'am,I polish it so shiny I can see my face in it, yeah. 
      SCENE TWENTY DEVON and TRENT are riding along in his truck 
      DEVON: What do you want to be when you grow up? TRENT: 
      When I grow up? I don't know; I don't think about it. DEVON: Well, 
      think about it. TRENT: When I grow up? I don't know. I just want 
      to be gone, you know, away from here. One day I'm gonna save up enough 
      money and do that, too. I'm gonna put on a clean shirt, a new pair of 
      socks, and I'm just gonna walk out of this life. DEVON: I like how 
      it sounds. TRENT: How what sounds? DEVON: Trent and Devon, 
      Devon and Trent. Trent and Devon, Devon and Trent. TRENT: 
      Bullshit. DEVON: Trent and Devon, Devon and Trent. Trent and 
      Devon, Devon and Trent. Trent amd Devon, Devon and Trent. SCENE 
      TWENTY-ONE TRENT pulls up to the side of a river and kills the engine. 
      TRENT: When I was a kid, my mom and my old man took me fishing 
      here. In those days you could catch five or six catfish, big as your arm, 
      and one night, well, I just let the two of them fish and then I walk aways 
      down the bank, and I take my shorts off and I plop my self down in the 
      sand in my bare ass and I piss. DEVON: Yuck. TRENT: No, 
      no, there's nothing like the day cooling all around you and you're sitting 
      in warm piss with the river floating by. DEVON: Yuck again. 
      TRENT: Yuck again? I was a kid, okay. What you piss in, is yours 
      for life. (He hits teh radio and Bruce Springsteen belts out "Dancing in 
      the Dark" He climbs out the window, on top of the truck, and pops his head 
      in DEVON's window) Come up here. (He grabs her arm and pulls her up there. 
      Out in the lake is a boat and TRENT yells)This is my river 
      
    
  
    
      
      You hear me! 
      DEVON: This is my river! You hear me! (They begin to dance as the 
      shot turns to the boat, NASH and MORTON are fishing) MORTON: Damn 
      kids. NASH: River rat son of a bitches. (The music seems to get 
      louder and NASH aims his gun in the water and fires. Immediatly, TRENT and 
      DEVON stop) MORTON: Well that'll get the fish biting for sure, 
      Nash. TRENT: Let's get outta here. DEVON: No, wait a 
      minute. TRENT: What, what, what? MORTON: I recogize that 
      truck. NASH: It's that lawnmower kid. MORTON: And one of 
      his little tramps. What, what are they doing now? NASH: I'll be 
      damned, they're mooning us. (The camera shows a far off few of the two 
      mooning and then switches to the ruck driving down the highway with DEVON 
      leaning out the window making sure they weren't following. SCENE 
      TWENTY-TWO Dinner at the Stockard's house. CLARE: You don't 
      look like you got much sleep at Tracy's. MORTON: Did you have a 
      good time, honey? DEVON: Brett put his hand up my shirt yesterday 
      at the barbecue. CLARE: What? MORTON: You let him put his 
      hand up your shirt? DEVON: No, he just did it. MORTON: You 
      mean he forced his hand up your shirt. Is that all? Nothing else? 
      DEVON: I got away. MORTON: Good for you. That's my girl. 
      Had a good chat with Brett's dad at the barbecue. He's the vice-president 
      of Maxitaw Kentucky. He told me he had a wild one on his hands with that 
      boy. DEVON: He was just tickling me. CLARE: Oh, honey, why 
      didn't you say so in the first place. He was just playing. MORTON: 
      Well then, he didn't mean any harm, Dev. You gave us a scare. 
      DEVON: (She takes a bite of her penut-butter-jelly sandwich and 
      then spits it out, acting sick) Can I be excused? I don't feel well. (she 
      leaves). CLARE: Do you think Brett really upset her? 
      MORTON: She's just growing up. CLARE: Well, she has her 
      last doctor's appointment on Friday. MORTON: I still think we 
      should look into some plastic surgery. CLARE: She doesn't want it; 
      at least not for now. MORTON: She'll want it when she starts 
      dating. In a few years, a boy like Brett feels...that...in the dark, he 
      won't be back for more. CLARE: Morton! SCENE TWENTY-THREE 
      TRENT mows while Brett and Sean watch from there car. SEAN: 
      What a waste. God, he just keeps on mowing. Just mows and mows like it 
      don't make a difference in the world. BRETT: That man there just 
      ain't mowing lawns. He's got a plan. SEAN: First our lawns, then 
      our women. BRETT: He's just waiting to make his move. 
      SEAN: Jesus, Brett, that guy really gets on your skin, doesn't he? 
      BRETT: How about going to the mall and pick up some fresh sound. 
      This stuff is stale. (The car aims toward the mailman) Oh, let's not run 
      over Mexico there! SEAN: El Salvador stupido! BRETT: Viva 
      Mexico! SEAN: Ariba, Ariba, hey! (When the car is gone, the 
      mailman looks toward TRENT. He drops a large package to the ground and 
      smiles as TRENT runs it over). DEVON: (inside, playing cheakers 
      with a doll). That was a smart move kid. (Moves red) Your move. (moves 
      balck and begins jumping to win for herself) That move my friend just cost 
      you another arm and a leg. (Rips an arm and leg off the doll) Alright, one 
      more. But don't get too smart dollface. If you lose this time, it will 
      cost you your head. (SHe hears the mower and runs to the window. Ten she 
      runs to the kitchen to meet mom) Can I bring him a glass of water? 
      CLARE: Why would you do that? DEVON: Because it's hot. 
      CLARE: Well, that would be considerate. (DEVON grabs a glass from 
      the cubboard) Oh, not one of the nice galsses, honey. There's a glass 
      under the sink. (DEVON finds teh other glass, a cheap plastic cup, and 
      washes it off) Oh, it's perfectly clean. (DEVON runs out to meet TRENT) 
      TRENT: (accepts the water) Hey what's this. (He sprinkles her with 
      water) You got womething on your dress. DEVON: Hey, come on, 
      Trent! TRENT: Hey, stop it. DEVON: Hey stop it, come on. 
      TRENT: Come on, stop what you're doing. Come here, I wnat to show 
      you something. (He leads her to the truck and gives her a turtle). 
      DEVON: Wow, where did you get it? TRENT: I almost ran over 
      it with the mower, turtle spaghetti DEVON: Eww. TRENT: 
      He'll eat lettuce. CLARE: Devon! DEVON: Oh, I gotta go. 
      TRENT: Okay. DEVON: Bye, thanks. SCENE switches to 
      TRACKER in Sean's car. The perks up and begins barking at Billy dressed in 
      a space uniform. BILLY: Don't bite me. (He gives the dog a cookie, 
      reaches behind him and takes the new CDS Sean and Brett just bought. As he 
      makes a run for it, he drops one. Then SEAN and BRETT come out of the 
      house and jump in the car. SEAN backs up over the CD) SEAN: 
      (Patting the dog's head) Hey boy! What the hell! BRETT: That son 
      of a bitch. (IN the next scene, Brett begins pouring sugar in TRENT's 
      mower. Sean stops him) SEAN: WHat if he didn't take the CDs? 
      BRETT: He took 'em. WHo do you think's been taking the 
      streetlamps? SEAN: WHat if it's his only mower? BRETT: I 
      know they always got a spare. SEAN: Come on, let's go. 
      BACK inside the Stockard house, Devon show her mom the turtle. 
      DEVON: He just gave me a turtle mom. CLARE: People just 
      don't give away turtles. Has he spoken to you before? DEVON: Yes. 
      CLARE: When? Listen to me, sweetheart. I'd rather you didn't talk 
      to him anymore. People don't just give you things without wnating 
      something in return. The next thing you know, he'll be asking your father 
      for a job. DEVON: He's got a job. CLARE: There's probably 
      something wrong with it. SCENE changes to NASH peering in to 
      TRENT's gastank. NASH: Look's like you got some sugar in your gas 
      tank. Now how did you manage that? Sugar will ruin a motor for sure. 
      (TRENT begins to leave) Just a minute there, son. I got a call from a 
      woman that ives around here. SHe said you gave her daughter a turtle? Is 
      that right? TRENT: Yeah, I gave a kid a turtle. NASH: Now 
      why did you go and do a thing like that? Look, I like turtles. I used to 
      go hunting them back up Herod's Creek when I was a kid, but folks are 
      nervous these days. It be best if you kept to yourself when you're working 
      around here. SCENE TWENTY-FOUR TRENT drives up to Sean's car 
      blocking the road. SEAN gets out and approaches the driver side window. 
      SEAN: How's it going? TRENT: Mind if I get by here? 
      BRETT: Hey! I've been meangin to talk to you. It's about this lawn 
      my grandmother has; only problem is, it's on her face. Think you can 
      handle it? SEAN: That's a nice mower. How's it running for you? 
      TRENT: Okay now, get that car outta my way. SEAN: What's 
      the rush. S'got something we need to work out is all. BRETT: Would 
      you look at this. (BRETT pulls out the weed eater) It's ancient. Hell, I 
      bet you could sell this for an antique, heh? TRENT: Don't touch 
      it. SEAN: Brett, put it back. BRETT: (he revs it up) 
      What's it feel like to play with a four foot long vibrator all day, huh? 
      Hey Sean, let's trim some weeds. (He inches the blade close to TRENT's 
      face) SEAN: If you took the music, just give it back. There'll be 
      no trouble. BRETT: You owe us foru CDs river rat. Whatcha do, you 
      sell 'em already? TRENT: What the hell are you talking about? 
      BRETT: This is bullshit. You wnat some of this? I'll cut you up 
      bitch! (He nicks TRENT's cheek) SEAN: Goddamnit, Brett! What are 
      you, crazy? (SEAN smears the cut) You're bleeding. TRENT: What 
      ya'll wnat from me? Huh? SEAN: Well, what do you got to offer? 
      TRENT: (Trent grabs SEAN and kisses him hard on the lips. TRACKER 
      attacks and grabs TRENT's leg) Get your fucking dog off of me! Get this 
      fucking dog off of me! Get the fuck off! (Climbs back in truck and revs 
      engine) SEAN: He bit me! Move my car! Move it, damn it! 
      SCENE TWENTY-FIVE DEVON is sitting by the old fire pit while 
      TRENT examines his damaged mower TRENT: Well, I could sell the 
      truck to get a new mower, but then how am I going to get the mower around? 
      I could sell the chainsaw and that might bring me enough to buy a half-ass 
      mower, but then I'll be mowing with a piece of shit and I'm going to be 
      out of a chainsaw to do the tree work. So you know what? Just fuck the 
      whole thing. Fuck it. (He begins to beat the head of the mower with a hunk 
      of metal and then stops. He loks over at DEVON and then bangs away. When 
      he stops, DEVON climbs up on the mower and begins jumping up and down, 
      kicking at the bolts. The scene swithces to DEVON and TRENT in the truck 
      heading down the road. DEVON: Where are we going? Trent? 
      TRENT: (He pulls up to a trailor while some kids playing with 
      water guns sprays DEVON) You want to come in? (They enter) Hey mama. 
      MOM: Hey! TRENT: Hey, give me some sugar. MOM: 
      What happened to your face? TRENT: Oh, it's nothing. I just 
      scrape... MOM: What's this? TRENT: I cut myself with the 
      weed eater. MOM: You want me to get you a new bandage? 
      TRENT: No don't worry about it. This id Devon, mama. MOM: 
      Well, nice to meet you, Devon. TRENT: You look tired. MOM: 
      Well, your daddy could keep th ewhole country awake with his wheazing and 
      kicking. He's out back. TRENT: Yeah. MOM: You two look 
      hot. You want some iced tea. (silence) Well I do. Get us a couple of 
      glasses out of the cupboard there, honey. (DEVON reaches for two and then 
      stops) Get the nice ones. The horse ones for a change. I hope you like it 
      sweet. (DEVON begins to wipe the cups out with her dress and notices TRENT 
      watching her. Feeling embarrased, she stops) His daddy likes it real 
      sweet. There you go. TRENT: (leaves the house to find his dad 
      outside) DAD: Well, now. TRENT: How are you, dad? 
      DAD: Well, I'm still here. TRENT: I lost the mower today. 
      DAD: What? Stolen? TRENT: No, some kids put some sugar in 
      the motor. DAD: Well, why would they do that? TRENT: Cause 
      they like me. DAD: Well, if you're worried about us--is that why 
      you come here? Hey, you know we do just fine on the pension. What you send 
      us is a treat, something extra. So we'll do without the extra. Hell, I 
      can't bowl no more anyway. TRENT: Can I listen? DAD: 
      (TRENT leans his ear against his dad's chest) No, don't worry about it. 
      Hey, it's not so bad. (Both get up to enter the house) DEVON: (at 
      the table with MOM) Not exactly. It's more like yours goes de-dum de-du 
      de-dum and mine goes de-de-dum de-de-dum de-de-dum. (MOM finally gets it 
      and they both stand) DAD: (scene changes to DAD placing US Flags 
      on the counter while the rest watch) I picked these up in my years in 
      Korea. Lot's of guys would sleep with 'em under their pillows at night and 
      when a guy didn't come back, well I got his flag. Take them. 
      TRENT: Oh no. DAD: Oh no? I want you to have them. 
      TRENT: I don't wnat 'em. I don't wnat them, dad. DAD: 
      Goddamnit, except a gift. I don't want them around the house no more. I 
      can't bring myself to throw them away. TRENT: Just when are you 
      going to die? Get it over with, dad. You've been doing ti for years now. 
      DAD: It takes a while to die. TRENT: You think I don't 
      know that? You think I don't know? You and your fucking flags. I don't 
      want them, okay! Send them to whatever bastard sent you your pension. 
      (TRENT leaves) DAD: This one was always my favorite back then. 
      Here feel of it, how soft it is. DEVON: Who's was this one? 
      DAD: It was mine. SCENE TWENTY-SIX TRENT and DEVON are 
      in the truck. DEVON holds on to the US Flag that was DAD's DEVON: 
      Why is your father dying? Is it because of the Koreans? Did they torture 
      him? TRENT: The Koreans didn't fuck up my old man. It was the 
      canned cheese. Government rations the soldiers got. The cans had some sort 
      of bacteria in 'em, see. Of course the government denies it. It gets 
      inside you, lives in your lungs, and eats 'em up bit by bit. He had one 
      lung out some years back. Just got half of one left. You ever wonder what 
      it be like to live on half a lung? (TRENT starts hacking away) 
      DEVON: Gross. TRENT: Give me a cigerette. 
      
