Bob Harris (Murray), an aging American movie star, arrives in Tokyo to film an advertisement for Suntory whisky, for which he will receive $2 million.
Charlotte (Johansson), a young college graduate, is left behind in her hotel room by her husband, John (Ribisi), a celebrity photographer on assignment in Tokyo.
Charlotte is unsure of her future with John as she believes he takes more interest in his celebrity models, most notably a young and popular American actress named Kelly (Faris), than he does in her.
At the same time, Bob's own 25-year marriage is tired and lacking in romance as he goes through a midlife crisis.

One night, after a long photo shoot, Bob retreats to the hotel bar.
Charlotte, sitting at a table with John and friends, notices Bob and has a waiter bring him a cup of sake from her table.
Later, Bob and Charlotte have brief encounters each night at the hotel bar, until Charlotte invites Bob to meet up with some local friends of hers.
Bob accepts and arrives later at her hotel room dressed in clothes that appear to be designed for a younger generation.
The two begin a friendship and bond through their adventures in Tokyo together while experiencing the differences between Japanese and American culture, and between their own generations.

On the penultimate night of his stay, Bob attracts the attention of the resident vocalist.
The next morning, Bob awakens to find the woman in his room, having apparently slept with her.
Charlotte arrives at his room to go out for breakfast only to find the woman in his room, leading to conflict and tension over a subsequent lunch.
Later that night, during a fire alarm at the hotel, Bob and Charlotte reconcile and express how they will miss each other as they make one more trip back to the hotel bar.

On the following morning, Bob is set for his departure back to the United States.
He tells Charlotte goodbye at the hotel lobby shortly before checking out and sadly watches her retreat back to an elevator.
While riding in a taxi to the airport, Bob sees Charlotte on a crowded street and gets out and goes to her.
Bob embraces Charlotte and whispers something (substantially inaudible to the audience) in the tearful Charlotte's ear.
The two share a kiss, say goodbye and Bob departs.