The film stars Borgnine as Marty Piletti, an Italian-American butcher who lives in The Bronx, New York City, with his mother (Esther Minciotti).
Unmarried at 34, the good-natured but socially awkward man faces constant badgering from family and friends to get married, pointing out that all his brothers and sisters are already married with children.
Not averse to marriage but disheartened by his lack of prospects, Marty has reluctantly resigned himself to bachelorhood.
In spite of his failed love life, Marty maintains an optimistic outlook on life, characterized by his frequent outbursts such as "Perfect!"
or "Fantastic!
".

After being harassed by his mother into going to the Stardust Ballroom one Saturday night, Marty connects with Clara (Betsy Blair), a plain schoolteacher who is quietly weeping on the roof after being callously abandoned at the ballroom by her blind date.
Spending the evening together dancing, walking the busy streets, and talking in a diner, Clara and Marty discover many shared affinities.
He eagerly spills out his life story and ambitions, and they encourage each other.
He brings Clara to his house, and they awkwardly express their mutual attraction, shortly before his mother returns.
Marty, delighted with his new-found love, takes her home by bus, promising to call her at two-thirty the next afternoon, after Mass.
In an exuberant scene, he punches the bus stop sign and weaves between the cars, looking for a cab, a rare luxury matching his mood.

Meanwhile, his cranky, busybody widowed aunt moves in to live with Marty and his mother.
She warns his mother that living alone, when children marry, is a widow's fate.
Fearing that Marty's romance could spell her abandonment, his mother belittles Clara.
Marty's friends, with an undercurrent of envy, deride Clara for her plainness and try to convince Marty to forget her and to remain with them, unmarried, in their fading youth.
Harangued into submission by the pull of his friends, Marty doesn't call Clara.

That night, back in the same lonely rut (among his regular cast of male friends), Marty realizes that he is giving up a chance of love with a woman whom he not only likes, but who makes him happy.
Over the objections of his friends, he dashes to a phone booth to call Clara, who is disconsolately watching television with her parents.
When his friend asks what he's doing, Marty bursts out saying: