In 1937, Ulysses Everett McGill (George Clooney), Pete Hogwallop (John Turturro), and Delmar O'Donnell (Tim Blake Nelson) escape from a chain gang at Parchman Farm and set out to retrieve the $1,200,000 in treasure that Everett claims to have stolen from an armored car and buried before his incarceration.
They have four days to find it before the valley in which it is hidden will be flooded to create Arkabutla Lake as part of a new hydroelectric project.
Early in their escape, while still chained together, they try to jump onto a moving train, but are dragged off when Pete trips.
They then encounter a blind man (Lee Weaver) traveling on a handcar.
They hitch a ride, and he tells their futures.
They "seek a great fortune" and they will "find a fortune, though it will not be the one they seek".
They will also see many wonders on their journey, including a "cow on the roof of a cotton house".

The trio comes to the house of Pete's cousin, Washington B.
"Wash" Hogwallop (Frank Collison), who removes their chains, but because he needs the money from the bounty, turns them in to the police, led by Sheriff Cooley (Daniel von Bargen).
The authorities set the barn where they are sleeping ablaze, but the trio quickly escapes with the help of Wash's son.
When they pass a congregation on the banks of a river, Pete and Delmar are enticed by the idea of baptism, to the immense derision of the skeptical Everett.
As the journey continues, they travel briefly with a young guitarist named Tommy Johnson (Chris Thomas King).
When asked why he was at a crossroads in the middle of nowhere, he reveals that he sold his soul to the devil in exchange for the ability to play the guitar.
Tommy describes the devil as being "White, as white as you folks...with empty eyes and a big hollow voice.
He love to travel around with a mean old hound", a description which matches Sheriff Cooley and his dog.

They come across a radio station run by a blind man (Stephen Root) and record the song "Man of Constant Sorrow", calling themselves the Soggy Bottom Boys.
Unknown to them, the song becomes famous "as far away as Mobile".
The trio parts ways with Tommy after their car is discovered by police, and they continue on their own.
Among their many encounters, the most notable are a famous bank robber George "Baby Face" Nelson (Michael Badalucco), a run-in with three sirens who seduce and drug them.
When Everett and Delmar awake, they find that Pete has vanished and only his clothes remain with a toad inside.
Delmar believes the sirens turned Pete into a toad and carries the toad in a box.
Later, one-eyed Bible salesman Daniel "Big Dan" Teague (John Goodman) mugs them and kills the toad.

Everett and Delmar arrive in Everett’s home town only to find that Everett's wife, Penny (Holly Hunter), is engaged to Vernon T. Waldrip (Ray McKinnon), campaign manager for gubernatorial candidate Homer Stokes (Wayne Duvall).
She refuses to take Everett back and is so ashamed of him that she has been telling their daughters he was killed by a train.

While watching a film in a cinema, Everett and Delmar discover that Pete is still alive.
The sirens had turned him in to collect the bounty on his head.
After Everett and Delmar rescue him from jail, Pete tells them that he revealed the location of the treasure.
Everett admits that he was in prison for practicing law without a license and that there was never any treasure.
He only mentioned it to persuade the other men (who were chained to him) to escape so he could reconcile with his wife, who wrote to him, telling her she would be getting remarried.
Pete is outraged at this news, primarily because he only had two weeks left on his original sentence and must now serve an additional 50 years for his escape.

The trio stumbles upon a Ku Klux Klan rally, in which the Imperial Wizard sings "O Death", and discovers that Tommy has been captured and is about to be lynched.
The three disguise themselves as the color guard and attempt a rescue, but Big Dan, who is one of the Klansmen, reveals their identities and chaos ensues, in which the Imperial Wizard is revealed to be Stokes.
The trio flees the scene, with Everett cutting the wires supporting a large burning cross, which falls on and incinerates some of the Klansmen (including Big Dan).

Everett convinces Pete, Delmar, and Tommy to help him win his wife back.
Disguised as musicians, they sneak into a Stokes campaign dinner she is attending.
Everett tries to convince his wife he is "bona fide", but she brushes him off.
The group begins an impromptu musical performance, during which the crowd recognizes them as the Soggy Bottom Boys and goes wild.
Stokes, on the other hand, recognizes them as the group who disgraced his lynch mob and shouts for the music to stop, angering the crowd.
He denounces the Soggy Bottom Boys as hostile to the social order, but the crowd is unimpressed and runs him out of town on a rail.
Pappy O'Daniel (Charles Durning), the sitting governor, seizes the opportunity and endorses the Soggy Bottom Boys, granting them a full pardon while the event is being played on the radio.
Penny accepts Everett back, but demands that he find her original ring if they are to be married.
As they leave the dinner, they run into a mob taking to jail a jubilant George, who happily claims he will be electrocuted.
Delmar comments, "Looks like George is right back on top again".

The four men set out to retrieve the ring, which is at a cabin in the valley where Everett originally claimed to have hidden the treasure.
When they arrive, Cooley and his men arrest them and prepare to hang them.
Everett protests, stating they had been pardoned on the radio, but Sheriff Cooley ignores their pleas, responding that where he comes from, "[they] don’t have a radio".
The three start to despair while Everett improvises a prayer to be saved.
Suddenly, the valley is flooded and they are saved from hanging.
Using one of their coffins as a raft, Pete and Delmar jubilantly praise God, while Everett dismisses the incident as luck.
He pipes down though, as a cow floats by on top of a submerged cotton house.
Tommy finds the ring in a desk on which he is floating, and they return to town.

Everett and Penny walk through town with their daughters in tow, singing.
Everett presents the ring to Penny, who promptly states that it is the wrong one and demands her ring back.
As Everett protests the futility of trying to find it at the bottom of the lake, the blind man rolls by on his railway handcar, his voice joining those of the girls in song.