The Hess family lives on a farm in Doylestown, Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
Graham Hess (Mel Gibson) is a former priest whose wife, Colleen, died in a horrific traffic accident caused by Ray Reddy (Shyamalan).
No longer practicing religiously, Graham lives with his asthmatic son, Morgan (Rory Culkin), daughter Bo (Abigail Breslin), who leaves water glasses all over the house claiming that the water tastes funny, and Graham's younger brother, Merrill (Joaquin Phoenix), a former minor league baseball star who never made it to the major leagues because he swung too hard and struck out.
Graham discovers a crop circle in his field, reports of violent animal behavior has spread across town, and one of the Hess' dogs tries to attack Bo and Morgan.

Graham discovers that the farm is being watched, and he and Merrill chase a tall, dark figure from the roof of a barn and into the crops, where it disappears.
Meanwhile, crop circles similar to the one in Graham's field appear around the world.
Morgan hears a strange noise on a baby monitor, but it stops before he can investigate further.
That evening, Graham goes to the crop circle, and hears the sound again.
After spotting a green leg sticking out of the cornrows, he flees to the house.
A news report reveals that lights have been spotted over Mexico City.

That night, Graham reveals to Merrill that he lost his faith after the death of his wife.
A flashback shows Graham approaching the scene of an accident.
He sees his wife pinned to a tree by a truck, and the officer tells him that his wife won't live.

The following morning, Graham visits Ray Reddy's house, whom he finds bleeding.
Ray apologizes for the accident, and tells Graham that he is fleeing to a nearby lake as "they don't like water".
Graham goes into Ray's kitchen, where Ray has an alien locked in his pantry.
Graham uses the blade of a kitchen knife to try to see the alien's reflection under the door.
When the alien grabs at him Graham reacts by cutting off some of the alien's fingers.
Meanwhile, Merril watches the news, and sees a video taken at a child's birthady party.
The footage shows an alien crouching behind bushes, then walking across a walkway.
Merril is shocked as the footage is shown.
He later resorts to joining Morgan and Bo with their tin hats Graham returns home and the family decides between going to the lake or staying at the farm, opting to board up all the doors and windows and remain in the house.
While Graham and Merrill do this, Morgan and Bo watch a news report on the growing number of sightings around the world.
The baby monitor again starts emitting the alien noises, and the television loses its signal.
They finish boarding up the windows, and all move into the living room.
One of the dogs, left outside, barks loudly and is silenced, and an alien is heard climbing up the house and onto the roof, where it breaks into the attic.
The family moves to the basement and props the door closed with an axe.
Graham and Merrill ward off an alien that attacks Morgan, who then has an asthma attack.
The news channel declares that the aliens have left.

The next morning, Graham decides to leave the basement and find Morgan's medicine.
The family follows, and they find an alien in the house.
The unconscious Morgan is again attacked, and taken hostage.
The alien attempts to poison Morgan, but because he is having an asthma attack and not breathing the poison doesn't get into his lungs.
Graham remembers his wife's dying words, "Tell Merrill to swing away".
He tells Merrill to "swing away" and Merrill attacks the alien with a baseball bat, and it releases Morgan.
They discover that water causes the alien pain, and Merrill smashes all the water glasses Bo had left all over the house at the alien.
Finally, Merrill hits the alien into furniture and water splashes on its face, killing it.
Graham administers Morgan's medication, and the boy recovers.
In the final scene, it is shown that Graham has returned to his clerical duties.