An omniscient (though unreliable[6]) narrator (voiced by Michael Hordern) informs us that in 1750s Ireland, the father of Redmond Barry (Ryan O'Neal) is killed in a duel over a disputed horse sale.
The widow (Marie Kean), disdaining offers of marriage, devotes herself to her only son.

As a teenager, Barry falls in love with his older cousin, Nora Brady (Gay Hamilton).
Though she seduces him, she later drops Barry (who has no money) for the well-off English Captain John Quin (Leonard Rossiter).
Nora and her family plan to relieve their poverty with an advantageous marriage, but Barry refuses to accept the situation and shoots Quin in a duel.

Barry flees to Dublin, but en route is robbed of purse and equipment by Captain Feeney (Arthur O'Sullivan), a famous highwayman.
Broke, Barry joins the British army, whereupon he reunites with Captain Grogan (Godfrey Quigley), a family friend, who informs him that, in fact, he did not kill Quin — Barry's dueling pistol was loaded with tow.
The duel was staged by Nora's family to get rid of Barry so that their family finances would be secured through the marriage of Nora and Quin.

Barry's regiment is sent to Germany to fight in the Seven Years' War, where Captain Grogan is fatally wounded by the French in a skirmish at the Battle of Minden.
Barry deserts the army, stealing an officer courier's uniform, horse, and identification papers.
En route to neutral Holland he encounters the Prussian Captain Potzdorf (Hardy Krüger), who, seeing through his disguise, offers him the choice of being turned back over to the British where he will be shot as a deserter, or enlisting in the Prussian army.
Barry enlists in his second army and later receives a special commendation from Frederick the Great for saving Potzdorf's life in a battle.

After the war ends in 1763, Barry is employed by Captain Potzdorf's uncle in the Prussian Ministry of Police to become the servant of the Chevalier de Balibari (Patrick Magee), a professional gambler.
The Prussians suspect he is a spy and send Barry as an undercover agent to verify this.
Barry reveals himself to the Chevalier right away and they become confederates cheating at cards.

After he and the Chevalier cheat the Prince of Tübingen at the cardtable, the Prince accuses the Chevalier (without proof) and refuses to pay his debt unless the Chevalier demands satisfaction.
When Barry relays this to his Prussian handlers, they (still suspecting that the Chevalier is a spy) are wary of allowing another meeting between the Chevalier and the Prince.
So, the Prussians arrange for the Chevalier to be expelled from the country.
Barry conveys this plan to the Chevalier, who flees in the night.
The next morning, Barry, under disguise as the Chevalier, is escorted from Prussian territory by Prussian officers.

For the next few years, Barry and the Chevalier travel the spas and parlors of Europe, profiting from their gambling with Barry enforcing reluctant debtors with a duel.
Seeing that his life is going nowhere, Barry decides to marry into wealth.
At a gambling table in Belgium, he encounters the beautiful and wealthy Countess of Lyndon (Marisa Berenson).
He seduces and later marries her after the death of her elderly husband, Sir Charles Lyndon (Frank Middlemass).