During the French and Indian War in 1757, Mohican Chingachgook (Russell Means) with his sons, Uncas (Eric Schweig) and adopted white Nathaniel Hawkeye (Daniel Day-Lewis), visit the Cameron frontier household.
Friend Jack Winthrop (Edward Blatchford) tells them he is gathering militia for the British army.
General Webb agrees to grant the militia leave if their homes are attacked, in return for their reinforcement of Colonel Edmund Munro (Maurice Roëves) at Fort William Henry.

Newly arrived Major Duncan Heyward (Steven Waddington) and the Huron guide Magua (Wes Studi) are tasked with escorting Munro's daughters, Cora (Madeleine Stowe) and Alice (Jodhi May), from Albany to their father at the fort.
Duncan wishes to marry Cora, but she feels only friendship for him.
Magua leads the group into an ambush by his Huron party, but Hawkeye, Uncas and Chingachgook save Duncan, Cora and Alice and decide to escort them to the fort.

Along the way the Cameron home is found razed and its occupants murdered, most likely by a war party as nothing has been stolen.
The group arrives at the fort which is under siege by the French, but sneak in.
Munro is surprised at his daughters’ arrival because he sent a letter for them to stay away and requesting reinforcements, but the courier was intercepted by Magua.
The fort can only hold for three more days, so a messenger is sent to General Webb for help.
Cora and Hawkeye have become attracted to one other, and so when Munro and Hawkeye disagree about the attack on the Cameron home, a jealous Duncan publicly claims that it was done by thieves.
He privately confesses to Munro afterwards that Hawkeye was correct, but Munro believes that British interests and the defense of the fort are more important, and refuses to let Jack and the militia leave to defend their homes and families.
Cora is disgusted by Duncan for lying and tells him that she will not marry him.
Hawkeye helps the militia desert, despite Munro's threats, and is arrested for sedition and sentenced to hang, despite Cora's pleas.
French General Montcalm (Patrice Chéreau) generously offers all in the fort safe passage to Albany if they surrender and vow to never fight in North America again.
Munro reluctantly accepts after Montcalm shows Webb’s intercepted message, showing that no aid is forthcoming.

Magua berates Montcalm for making peace, revealing that his village was destroyed and his children killed by Munro's troops, assisted by the Mohawk; though he regained his freedom from Mohawk captivity, his wife remarried believing he was dead.
Montcalm, though intending to honor the terms, tacitly grants Magua permission to deal with the British.
The retreating British soldiers and their families are ambushed by Magua's men.
Magua cuts out Munro's heart from his living body, but not before promising to kill Munro's daughters to extinguish his line.
Hawkeye, Cora, Alice, Uncas, Chingachgook, Duncan and two British soldiers flee in canoes across Lake George and down a river to a cave behind a waterfall, but Magua and his men are soon upon them.
For their safety, Hawkeye urges Cora and Alice to submit if captured and promises he will find them later, then leaps with his father and brother down the waterfall.
Magua takes Duncan and the two sisters to a Huron village.

Magua is negotiating with the sachem when they are interrupted by the arrival of an unarmed Hawkeye.
With Duncan translating in French, Hawkeye convinces the chief that Magua is acting for his own interests, rather than for the good of the tribe.
The chief decides that Cora is to be burned alive to atone for Magua's children, gives Alice to replace Magua’s wife so that both bloodlines can continue and orders Duncan's return to the British to placate them.
Hawkeye is released in recognition of his bravery, but pleads to take Cora’s place.
Duncan deliberately mistranslates, sacrificing himself instead so Hawkeye and Cora can go free, whilst Magua curses the sachem and departs with Alice and his men.
From a safe distance, Hawkeye mercifully shoots Duncan as he is being burned alive.

Uncas, who cares for Alice, races ahead to intercept Magua's band, killing several warriors before engaging Magua in single combat.
Magua kills him, then drops his body off the cliff.
Rather than join Magua, Alice follows Uncas, jumping to her death.
Seeing this, Hawkeye and Chingachgook fall upon the Hurons, killing several.
While Hawkeye holds the rest at bay, Chingachgook engages and kills Magua.

After a ritual for Uncas with Cora and Hawkeye, Chingachgook announces that he is the last of the Mohicans.