Mary (Kim Hunter), a young woman at Miss Highcliff's boarding school, learns that her sister Jacqueline (Brooks), her only relative, has gone missing and has not paid her tuition in months.
The school officials tell Mary she can only stay on if she works for the school, to pay her tuition.

Mary decides to leave school to find her sister.
She returns to New York City, and finds that her sister had sold her cosmetics business eight months earlier.
She locates the apartment Jacqueline was renting, and finds only a chair and a noose hanging from the ceiling in the otherwise bare apartment.
This only makes Mary more anxious and determined to find her.

Her investigation leads her to Jacqueline's secret husband Gregory Ward (Hugh Beaumont), a failed poet (Erford Gage), and a mysterious psychiatrist, Dr. Judd (Tom Conway).
Jacqueline had been Judd's patient, seeking treatment for depression stemming from her membership in a Satanic cult called the Palladists.
She was seduced into joining the cult by her former co-workers.
Mary enlists a private detective (Lou Lubin) to help in her investigation, but he is stabbed to death under mysterious circumstances.

Dr. Judd helps her locate Jacqueline, who is hiding from the cult.
Ward falls in love with Mary.
Jacqueline is kidnapped by the cult members and condemned to death, because their rules state that anyone who reveals the cult must die.
She would be the seventh person condemned under these rules since the founding of the cult (hence the film's title).

The cult has rules against violence, and decides that Jacqueline, who is suicidal, should kill herself.
When she refuses, the cult members let her leave, but send an assassin to follow her.
She eludes him and returns to Mary's apartment, which is next to her own.
She briefly encounters her neighbor (Elizabeth Russell), a young woman with a terminal illness.
The neighbor says she’s afraid to die, but she is tired of being afraid and plans a last night out on the town.

Jacqueline enters her own apartment and hangs herself.
The thud of the chair falling over is heard, but the sick woman does not recognize the sound as she leaves for the evening.