In 2084, Douglas Quaid is an Earthbound construction worker having troubling dreams about Mars and a mysterious woman there.
His wife Lori dismisses the dreams and discourages him from thinking about Mars, where the governor, Vilos Cohaagen, is fighting rebels while searching for a rumored alien artifact located in the mines.
At "Rekall", a company that provides memory implants of vacation, Quaid opts for a memory trip to Mars as a secret agent.
However, during the procedure, Quaid violently reacts before the memory is implanted.
The company re-sedates him, wipes his memory of the Rekall visit, and sends him home.
On the way home, Quaid is attacked by his co-workers and is forced to kill them.
He then is attacked by armed thugs led by Lori and Richter, her real husband and Cohaagen's subordinate.

After evading his attackers, Quaid is given a suitcase containing money, gadgets, and a video recording.
The video is of Quaid, apparently called "Hauser", who explains that he used to work for Cohaagen but learned about the artifact, and underwent the memory wipe to protect himself.
The "Hauser" instructs Quaid on removing a tracking device, before ordering him to go to Mars and meet "Kuato".
Quaid makes his way to Mars and follows clues to Venusville, the colony's red-light district populated by a people mutated by poor radiation shielding.
He meets Melina, the woman from his dreams, but she spurns him, believing that Quaid is working for Cohaagen.

Quaid later encounters Lori and Rekall's President, Dr. Edgemar.
Edgemar insists Quaid is living out the implanted memories, and offers Quaid a pill that would wake him from the dream.
Quaid however sees Edgemar sweating in fear, and kills him instead.
Richter's forces capture Quaid, but Melina rescues him with Quaid killing Lori in the process.
The two race back to the Venusville bar and escape into the tunnels with their taxi driver Benny.
Unable to locate Quaid, Cohaagen shuts down the ventilation to Venusville, slowly suffocating its citizens.
Quaid, Melina, and Benny are taken to a resistance base, and Quaid is introduced to Kuato, a deformed humanoid conjoined to his brother's stomach.
Kuato reads Quaid's mind and learns that the artifact is a turbinium reactor that will create a breathable atmosphere for Mars when activated, eliminating Cohaagen's abusive monopoly on breathable air.
Cohaagen's forces burst in, led by Benny, and kill most of the resistance, including Kuato, who instructs Quaid to start the reactor.

Quaid and Melina are taken to Cohaagen, who reveals the Quaid persona was a ploy by Hauser to infiltrate the mutants and lead Cohaagen to Kuato, thereby wiping out the resistance.
Cohaagen orders Hauser's memory to be reimplanted in Quaid and Melina to be programmed to be Hauser's slave, but Quaid and Melina escape into the mines where the reactor is located.
They work their way to the control room of the reactor, killing Benny, Richter, and the rest of his men.

While running away in the reactor, Cohaagen confronts them in the control room with a bomb.
but Quaid accidentally sets it off, blowing out one of the walls of the control room, causing an explosive decompression.
Quaid grabs on the wall, but knocks Coohagen out, which causes him to land on the surface of Mars.
Due to the low atmospheric pressure, his internal fluids boil out, killing him.
Quaid manages to activate the reactor before he and Melina are also pulled out.
The reactor releases air into the Martian atmosphere, saving Quaid, Melina and the population of Venusville.
As humans walk onto the surface of the planet in its new atmosphere, Quaid takes a moment to wonder whether he is still living the memory before turning to kiss Melina.