Dorothy Gale is a young farm girl who lives with her guardians, Aunt Em and Uncle Henry, in sepia-tinted Kansas in the early 1900s.
Dorothy is in trouble with a cruel neighbor, Miss Almira Gulch, but her guardians and farm hands Hunk, Hickory, and Zeke are too busy to pay attention to her.
Miss Gulch arrives with permission from a sheriff to have Dorothy's dog Toto put down for biting her on the leg.
Toto is taken away, but escapes, much to Dorothy's delight.
Dorothy runs away from home with Toto to escape Miss Gulch.
They meet Professor Marvel, a fortuneteller, who realizes Dorothy has run away and tricks her via his crystal ball into believing her Aunt Em is ill. As Dorothy returns home, a storm comes up.
Unable to get into the storm cellar, Dorothy is hit by a window pane and knocked out.
She wakes up to discover the house is being carried aloft by a tornado.

The house lands in the Technicolor world of Oz in Munchkin Land.
Dorothy is greeted by Glinda, the Good Witch of the North, and the Munchkins, who treat her like a heroine because her house has killed the Wicked Witch of the East.
The dead witch's sister, the Wicked Witch of the West, arrives.
As she is about to claim the ruby slippers from her sister's feet, Glinda transfers them to Dorothy's feet instead.
The Witch of the West swears revenge on Dorothy (and Toto).
Glinda tells Dorothy to follow the yellow brick road to the Emerald City, where the Wizard of Oz might be able to help her get back home.

On her way to the Emerald City, Dorothy meets and befriends the Scarecrow, Tin Man, and the Cowardly Lion (played by the same actors who portray Aunt Em and Uncle Henry's three farm workers).
They decide to join Dorothy to ask the Wizard for a brain, heart, and courage respectively, though in truth the trio each have what they want (the Scarecrow shows signs of wisdom, the Tin Man is very sentimental and the Lion shows signs of bravery).
After some danger, they meet the Wizard (in the form of a flaming head) who agrees to grant their wishes, but not until they bring him the broomstick of the Witch of the West.

On their way to the Witch's castle, the gang are ambushed by the Witch's flying monkeys, who capture Dorothy and Toto.
At the castle, the Witch again fails to get the slippers due to magic, and remembers Dorothy has to be killed first.
Toto escapes and leads Dorothy's friends to the castle.
After defeating three Winkie Guards and stealing their uniforms, the gang marches into the castle and frees Dorothy, but the Witch and her guards eventually trap them.
After the Witch sets the Scarecrow on fire, Dorothy accidentally melts her with a bucket of water as she puts out the fire.
The guards unexpectedly rejoice now that the Witch is dead, and give Dorothy the charred broomstick in gratitude.

Back at the Emerald City, the Wizard still refuses to grant their wishes, but Toto exposes the "Wizard" as a normal middle-aged man (who resembles Marvel) and he admits he's a "humbug".
The "Wizard" still grants the gang's wishes by giving Scarecrow a diploma, the Lion a medal and the Tin Man a heart pocket watch.
He then offers to get Dorothy home in his hot-air balloon, but Toto runs away and Dorothy follows, and the balloon leaves without her.
Glinda soon arrives and tells Dorothy she can still return home by clapping her heels together three times and repeating "there is no place like home".
Dorothy "returns" home to her family, with the farm hands and Marvel by her bedside.