At a gas station, Michelle Mancini (Natasha Gregson Wagner) fights off an alleged attack by the stuttering gas attendant (Brad Dourif).
However, the attendant was actually trying to warn her of an attacker in the back seat, and as Michelle drives off, the attacker in the back seat decapitates her with an axe.
On campus, student Parker Riley (Michael Rosenbaum) relates how one of the campus halls, Stanley Hall, had been the site of a massacre in 1973.
The story is discredited by school journalist Paul Gardner (Jared Leto).

As Natalie Simon (Alicia Witt) is shaken by Michelle's death, Damon Brooks (Joshua Jackson) offers to talk and the two drive into the woods.
Damon is attacked by the killer, who hangs him from a tree with the rope attached to the car.
As the killer approaches Natalie, she attempts to run him over, strangling Damon in the process.

Realizing Damon's and Michelle's murder resemble urban legends, Natalie goes to the library to read up on urban legends.
While she is away, her goth roommate Tosh Guaneri (Danielle Harris), is strangled by the killer.
Thinking her roommate is merely engaging sexual activity, the returning Natalie doesn't turn on the lights and goes to bed.
In the morning, a shocked Natalie discovers her corpse and the words, "Aren't you glad you didn't turn on the light?"
scrawled on the wall.

After trying to save Brenda (Rebecca Gayheart) from a supposed attack in the swimming hall, Natalie reveals her past, one night Natalie and Michelle re-enact an urban legend; they were driving with their headlights turned off and pursued the first driver who flashed them, causing him to run off the road and die in the crash.

Next, the dean (John Neville) is attacked in the garage and run over by his car forcing the emergency spikes into his back.
Later, security guard Reese Wilson (Loretta Devine) finds Professor Wexler's (Robert Englund) office empty and smeared in blood.
Meanwhile, Paul has discovered the Stanley Hall massacre actually occurred and Wexler was the sole survivor.

At a party, Parker gets a phone call from the killer telling him that his dog is in the microwave.
After opening the microwave and seeing his dead dog, he then runs to the bathroom to vomit, where the killer ties him to the toilet and forces him to chug pop rocks and bathroom chemicals (instead of soda), killing him.
At the radio station, Sasha (Tara Reid) is on air.
In the background, her employee is being strangled to death.
Sasha screams and runs out of the room; she is still on air and everyone can hear her cries for help.
Natalie runs to her aid only to see the killer murder her with an axe.

Fleeing from the station, Natalie finds Brenda and Paul and they drive off to find help.
Paul convinces the girls that the killer is Wexler.
When Paul stops at a gas station, Natalie and Brenda discover Wexler's dead body in the car and bolt, thinking Paul to be the killer.
Natalie loses Brenda but makes her way to a road, where the school's janitor (Julian Richings) picks her up.
When the janitor flashes a car with its lights out, it swerves around and pursues them.
The janitor's car is forced off the road but Natalie survives and makes her way towards Stanley Hall.
She hears Brenda screaming from inside.
When Natalie breaks into the hall, she discovers Brenda lying on a bed.
As Natalie starts crying, Brenda sits up and knocks her unconscious.

Waking up, Natalie finds herself tied to a bed and gagged.
The killer comes in and unmasks herself as Brenda.
She reveals that the young man Natalie and Michelle killed was Brenda's boyfriend and she is now exacting her revenge.
She begins to cut Natalie's stomach in the fashion of the "Kidney Heist" legend, when Reese rushes in and forces Brenda to get away from Natalie.
Reese frees Natalie, however, Brenda shoots her after she frees Natalie, who decided to untie the ropes on her hands and ankles all by herself.
Paul then appears and tries to trick Brenda.
As Brenda is deciding whether to shoot Paul or Natalie, the wounded Reese reaches up and shoots Brenda in the elbow.
Natalie grabs the gun and shoots Brenda, who falls through a window.

Natalie and Paul drive off to get help.
Suddenly, Brenda appears in the backseat and attacks them with the axe.
Paul crashes on a bridge, sending Brenda through the windshield into the river below.
Some time later, the whole story is told among another group of students.
The other students disbelieve the tale with the exception of one young woman, who is revealed to be Brenda.