Born in Seattle, Washington, Frances Elena Farmer is a rebel from a young age, winning an award by writing a high school essay called "God Dies" in 1931, for which she wins $100.
In 1935, she becomes controversial again when she wins (and accepts) an all-expenses-paid trip to the USSR to visit the Moscow Art Theatre.
Determined to become an actress, Frances is equally determined not to play the Hollywood game: she refuses to acquiesce to publicity stunts, and insists upon appearing on screen without makeup.
Her defiance attracts the attention of Broadway playwright Clifford Odets, who convinces Frances that her future rests with the Group Theatre.

But once she leaves Hollywood for New York City, Frances learns, much to her chagrin, that the Group Theatre intends to exploit her fame only to draw in more customers and that the Group Theatre's London run of its play, Golden Boy, is replacing Frances with a wealthy actress for its needed backing and that her lover, its playright, Clifford Odets, will return to his wife, Louise Rainer, upon Rainer's return from Europe.
Her desperate attempts to restart her film career, combined with her increasing dependence on alcohol and amphetamines and the pressures brought to bear by her wannabe mother, who becomes her legal guardian in 1943 in response to her legal problems (driving with bright lights in a wartime blackout zone, assaulting a studio hairdresser, failing to appear for probation and court when scheduled and resisting arrest), result in a complete nervous breakdown.
While institutionalized in her home state's Western State Hospital by her mother during the 1940s, Frances is abused by the powers-that-be: she is forced to undergo insulin and electroconvulsive shock therapy, is cruelly beaten, periodically raped by the male orderlies and visiting nearby soldiers and eventually involuntarily lobotomized.

In 1950, Frances is released back in the custody of her mother, who persists in browbeating her until Frances discovers the legal means to break away in 1953.
The film comes to a climax when Frances is paid honor in 1958 by the network program, This Is Your Life.
When asked about alcoholism, illegal drugs and insanity, Farmer denied them all.
She commented, "If a person is treated like a patient, they are apt to act like one."
The film ends with Frances Farmer walking down a Los Angeles street with Harry York.
Ending lines state that Frances Farmer moved to Indianapolis shortly afterwards and was host of a local daytime TV program (Frances Farmer Presents) from 1958-1964, before dying of esophageal cancer on August 1, 1970 at age 56: dying just as she had lived—alone.