In Bedford Falls, New York,[N 2] on Christmas Eve, George Bailey is deeply troubled and suicidal.
Prayers for his well-being from friends and family reach Heaven.
Clarence Odbody, Angel 2nd Class, is assigned to visit Earth to save George, thereby earning his wings.
Franklin and Joseph, the head angels, review George's life with Clarence.

As a 12-year-old boy in 1919, George saved the life of his younger brother Harry, who had fallen through the ice on a frozen pond, and because of his heroic action, George lost the hearing in his left ear.
Later, while working in the local pharmacy, George noticed that the druggist, Mr. Gower, despondent over his son's death from influenza, had mistakenly filled a child's prescription with poison; George stopped Gower and saved him from killing the child and irrevocably ruining his own life.

George grows up and dreams of travelling the world.
In 1928, he waits for Harry to graduate from high school and replace him at the Bailey Building and Loan Association, vital to the townspeople.
On Harry's graduation night, George, now 21 and preparing to travel before attending college, discusses his future with Mary Hatch, who has long had a crush on him.
Later that evening, George's absent-minded Uncle Billy interrupts them to tell George that his father has had a stroke, which proves fatal.

George gives up his summer travel plans to stay in Bedford Falls and sort out the firm's affairs, and a few months later, Mr. Henry F. Potter, a rapacious slumlord and a member of the Building and Loan Association board, tries to persuade the board of directors to dissolve the Building and Loan.
His main objection is to their providing home loans for the working poor.
George talks them into rejecting Potter's proposal, but they agree only on condition that George run the Building and Loan.
Giving his college money to Harry, George delays his plans with the understanding that his younger brother, Harry, will take over upon graduation.

When Harry graduates from college, he unexpectedly brings home a wife, whose father has offered Harry an excellent job.
Although Harry vows to decline the offer out of respect for his brother, George cannot deny Harry such a fine opportunity and decides to keep running the Building and Loan, knowing that this will kill his dream to travel the world.

George calls on Mary, who has recently returned home from college.
After several arguments, they reveal their love for each other, and marry soon after.
As they depart for their honeymoon, they witness a run on the bank that leaves the Building and Loan in danger of collapse.
The couple quell the panic by using the $2,000 set aside for their honeymoon to satisfy the depositors' immediate needs.
Mary enlists the help of George's two best friends, Bert, a policeman, and Ernie, a cab driver, to create a faux tropical setting for a substitute honeymoon.
The newlywed couple embrace while Bert and Ernie sing in the background.

George never manages to leave Bedford Falls, but does start Bailey Park, an affordable housing project.
With his own interests compromised, Potter tries to hire him away, offering him a $20,000 salary,[N 3] along with the promise of business trips to Europe, something that George always wanted to do.
George, initially tempted, turns Potter down after realizing that Potter intends to close down the Building and Loan and take full control of Bedford Falls.
He and Mary then raise four children: Pete, Janie, Tommy and Zuzu.

When World War II erupts, George is unable to enlist, because of his bad ear.
Harry becomes a Navy fighter pilot and shoots down 15 enemy planes, two of which were targeting a ship full of troops in the Pacific.
For his bravery, Harry is awarded the Medal of Honor.

On Christmas Eve morning, as the town prepares a hero's welcome for Harry, Uncle Billy is on his way to Potter's bank to deposit $8,000 of the Building and Loan's cash funds.
He greets Potter (who has the newspaper reporting Harry's heroics) and taunts him by reading the headlines aloud.
Potter angrily snatches the paper, but Billy inattentively allows the money to be snatched with it.
Potter opens the paper, notices the money and keeps it, knowing that misplacement of bank money would result in bankruptcy for the Building and Loan and criminal charges for George.
Uncle Billy can't remember what happened to the money, and with a bank examiner present, he and George frantically search the town which turns up nothing.
George is devastated that he is apparently destined to face scandal and jail and takes his anger and frustrations out on his family.

A desperate George appeals to Potter for a loan.
Potter sarcastically turns George down, and then swears out a warrant for his arrest for bank fraud.
George, now completely depressed, gets drunk at the bar owned by his friend, Giuseppe Martini, where he silently prays for help.
After crashing his car into a tree, George staggers to a bridge, intending to commit suicide, feeling he is "worth more dead than alive" because of a life insurance policy.
Before he can leap, Clarence jumps in first and pretends to be drowning.
After George rescues him, Clarence reveals himself to be George's guardian angel.

George does not believe him and bitterly wishes he had never been born.
Inspired by this comment, Clarence shows George what the town would have been like without him.
In this alternate scenario, Bedford Falls is instead named Pottersville, and is home to sleazy nightclubs, pawn shops, and immoral people.
Bailey Park is never built, and is instead an old cemetery.
George notices that he can now hear in his left ear, that his lip is not bleeding, and that he does not have Zuzu's flower petals, as he never existed in the alternate reality.

Mr. Gower was sent to prison for poisoning the child and is despised and homeless.
Martini does not own the bar, and is a recluse.
Martini's bartender Nick owns the bar, and runs it in a more reckless manner.
George's friend Violet Bick is a strip-dancer and gets arrested as a pickpocket.
Ernie is helplessly poor, with his family having forsaken him.
Uncle Billy has been in an insane asylum for many years since he lost his brother and the family business.
Harry is dead as a result of George not being there to save him from drowning, and the servicemen he would have saved also died.
George's mother is a bitter widow, and Mary is a shy, single spinster librarian.
Clarence then explains how George single-highhandedly prevented this dire fate.
He, and he alone, kept Potter in check, preventing the town from descending into squalor and vice.

George runs back to the bridge and begs to be allowed to live again.
His prayer is answered, and he runs home joyously, where the authorities are waiting to arrest him.
Mary, Uncle Billy, and a flood of townspeople arrive with more than enough donations to save George and the Building and Loan.
George's friend Sam Wainwright sends him a $25,000 line of credit by telegram.

Harry also arrives to support his brother, and toasts George as "the richest man in town".
In the pile of donated funds, George finds a copy of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer inscribed, "Dear George: Remember no man is a failure who has friends.
P.S.
Thanks for the wings!
Love, Clarence."
A bell on the Christmas tree rings, and his daughter, Zuzu, remembers aloud that it means an angel has just earned his wings.
George realizes that he truly has a wonderful life.