Mini Drogues (Nikki Reed) is a clever and adventurous high school senior who is bored with her life.
Mini prizes her "unique experiences" (she calls them "firsts").
For excitement, and to add to her list of firsts, Mini decides to try being a call girl.
Her first client, however, has a guilty conscience and can't carry through with the act, which disappoints Mini.
Her second client is decidedly more exciting — it's her stepfather Martin (Alec Baldwin).
Martin is initially shocked when he learns of her identity (he initially blindfolded himself during intercourse as per Mini's request), but soon a torrid love affair blossoms between the two.

In order to be together, Mini and Martin team up against Mini's mother Diane (Carrie-Anne Moss) to have her declared insane.
When their plan fails, Mini convinces Martin to murder Diane despite his initial resistance to the idea and to try their best to make it look like Diane committed suicide; they soon attract the attention of a detective (Luke Wilson) who believes Mini and Martin killed Diane and a nosy neighbor (Jeff Goldblum) who is sexually obsessed with Mini.
When Martin finds out about the day when Mini went over to their neighbor's house and received sexual pictures that he believes came from the neighbor, he and the neighbor get into a fight.
Mini arrives to find Martin standing over the neighbor, ready to beat him into unconsciousness, when the police show up and arrest Martin.

Mini visits Martin in jail and admits that the sexual pictures sent were actually from her in order to get Martin to think that the neighbor sent them.
She also reveals that she assumed the police would eventually believe he killed Diane (since he was the more likely perpetrator).
Mini, therefore, ends up getting away with murder, and inherits her mother's fortune.
The film ends as Mini giving a valedictorian speech due to her mother's death, even though she had straight C's throughout the year, providing advice to the graduating class about how to live a good life that perversely alludes to her crimes without making her look too suspicious.
The detective is present at the speech, clearly still suspicious of Mini, but knowing he will probably never be able to prove she is guilty of murder.