Fred Madison, a Los Angeles saxophonist, receives a message from an unknown man on the intercom of the front door of his house saying, "Dick Laurent is dead."
When he looks out his window the streets outside his house are empty and faint police sirens are heard in the distance.

Fred then plays his saxophone at a nightclub that night, but his wife Renee does not join him.
Fred calls her at home during a break, but she does not answer.
Arriving home later, Fred sees Renee asleep in bed.
The next morning, there is a mysterious package that arrives on the front doorstep containing a videotape of their home.
One night, after the two have sex, Fred sees Renee's face as that of a pale old man.
As the days pass, more tapes arrive, showing the interior of their house and even shots of them in bed sleeping.
Fred and Renee call the police, but the detectives say that there is nothing they can do about it.

That evening, Fred and Renee go to a party held by Andy, a friend of Renee.
There, Fred meets a Mystery Man who looks like the face Fred had seen some nights before.
The Mystery Man tells Fred that he is at Fred's house at that moment.
Fred phones his house and the Mystery Man answers while he is standing right in front of Fred.
Fred walks away and asks Andy who the Mystery Man is and is told that he is a friend of Dick Laurent.
The next morning, another tape arrives and Fred watches it alone.
To his horror it shows him killing Renee.
He is then arrested, tried, found guilty, and sentenced to death.
Shortly after arriving on death row, Fred is plagued by frequent headaches and strange visions of the Mystery Man, a burning cabin in the desert, and a strange man driving down a dark highway.

One morning, during a routine cell check, the prison guards are shocked to find that the man in Fred's cell is not Fred.
The man is discovered to be Pete Dayton, a young auto mechanic.
Since Pete has committed no crime, he is released into the care of his parents Bill and Candace, and taken to their home in Van Nuys.
Pete is soon being followed by two detectives to find out how he ended up in Fred's cell.
The next day, Pete returns to work at the garage, where he is welcomed back by the owner Arnie and veteran mechanic Phil.
Pete is called on by Mr. Eddy, a gangster, to fix his Mercedes 6.9.
Mr. Eddy takes Pete for a drive where Pete witnesses him wave a tailgater on, then ram into the man's car, after which Mr. Eddy and his two cohorts attack and beat up the driver.

The next day, Mr. Eddy returns with his mistress, Alice Wakefield, and his Cadillac for Pete to repair.
Later, Alice returns to the garage and invites Pete out for dinner.
Soon, Pete and Alice begin a secret liaison, meeting at run-down motels every night.
Alice begins to fear that Mr. Eddy suspects her and Pete of seeing each other and gets Pete to agree to a plan to steal money from her friend Andy so they can leave town.
Alice reveals to Pete that Mr. Eddy is actually a porn producer named Dick Laurent and he forced her to do the films.
After being confronted by his worried parents and receiving a threatening visit from Mr. Eddy and his associates at the garage, Pete enters Andy's house through a door left unlocked by Alice and, while searching the house, discovers a projector playing a porn film featuring her.
Pete ambushes Andy and accidentally kills him, and he and Alice escape with the money.
They arrive at a cabin in the desert, where Alice seduces Pete.

Pete suddenly transforms back into Fred Madison, who searches the desert cabin and meets the Mystery Man, who tells Fred that Alice is actually Renee.
Fred drives to the Lost Highway Hotel, where Mr. Eddy and Renee are having sex, and waits for Renee to exit the motel.
After Renee leaves, Fred breaks into Mr. Eddy's room, grabs him and takes him away in his Mercedes to the desert, where Fred beats him up.
The Mystery Man suddenly appears with a portable TV and shows Mr. Eddy that Fred knows he and Renee have been having an affair.
The Mystery Man then shoots Mr. Eddy dead and whispers something to Fred.
The Mystery Man disappears and Fred drives off in Mr. Eddy's Mercedes.
Fred drives to his old house, buzzes the intercom and says "Dick Laurent is dead".
The two detectives suddenly appear, and Fred runs back to his car and drives off with the detectives in close pursuit.
As it gets dark, Fred speeds down the highway pursued by the police in the midst of another transformation.