Following the accidental death of his mother, Renee, during production of her latest movie, thirteen-year-old Jeff Matthews and his father, Chase, a veterinarian, move to Ludlow, Maine.
Jeff learns about the Creed family and the cursed Indian burial ground.
His friend Drew's dog, Zowie, is shot by Drew's stepfather, Gus Gilbert, the town sheriff.
Jeff and Drew bury Zowie at the burial ground in an attempt to bring him back to life.
The dog returns from the dead, but is unusually fierce, and his eyes have an unnatural glow to them even in daylight.
Zowie is treated for his gunshot wound by Chase, who finds that the wound is not healing and Zowie has no heartbeat.
Chase sends a blood sample to a lab and learns that Zowie's cells have completely deteriorated and are no different from those of a dead canine.

Jeff and Drew go to the pet cemetery on Halloween for a night of horror stories about the Creed murders when Gus comes looking for Drew and punches him.
Before Gus can hit his stepson with one of the gravemarkers, Zowie rushes out of the shadows and kills him with a bite to the jugular.
The boys bury Gus in the burial ground.
Gus returns to life, but now exhibits stiff movements and treats Drew more fairly, but remains mostly silent and in a zombie-like state.
Soon, he becomes more crude and sadistic; he rapes Drew's mother and brutally skins his pet rabbits for supper.

Zowie breaks out of the veterinary clinic and kills three cats before entering Chase's home and attacking him.
Chase survives with an injured arm, but is shaken.
The next day, Jeff encounters the school bully, Clyde Parker.
Clyde is about to cut off Jeff's nose when Gus arrives.
Gus orders Jeff to go home, then kills Clyde.
Drew witnesses the killing.

Gus traps Drew inside his house with Zowie, who has gone savage.
Drew escapes through a window and gets in the car of his arriving mother.
Gus chases them down the highway with his police car, killing them by forcing them to collide with a truck.
Gus returns to Clyde's corpse with a police shovel and body bag, saying, "I'm takin' you up the hill, Clyde, buddy.
That's the way the Indians did it."

That night, Jeff becomes obsessed with the burial ground`s power and decides to reanimate his mother.
He has Gus exhume her corpse, and meets him at the burial ground.
His father is told that his wife has been removed from her grave by Gus.
Chase rushes to Gus's house and is attacked by Zowie but manages to kill the undead dog.
He enters Gus's house but finds the undead man waiting for him.
Shooting Gus in his chest has little effect on him.
Just as Gus is about to kill Chase, Chase retrieves his gun and shoots Gus through the head, killing him.

Jeff's mother has come back to life.
Renee stabs and kills Chase's housekeeper, Marjorie, in the attic.
Jeff hears Marjorie`s screams and walks calmly up to the attic, meeting the undead Renee up there.
Chase arrives home and finds Marjorie's body as well as his son embracing his undead wife.
He is unmoved by Renee and tries to warn Jeff to get away from her.
Renee then asks Jeff to go downstairs so she and Chase can "talk".
An undead Clyde arrives armed with an ax and fights Jeff.
Chase is knocked out, and Renee locks everyone in the attic and sets the place on fire.

Jeff kills Clyde, then uses his axe to chop down the attic door and grabs his unconscious father.
Renee tries convincing Jeff to stay by muttering, "I love you", but Jeff leaves his mother to die in the flames.
As Renee burns, she screams out "Dead is better!"
The next morning, Jeff and Chase leave Ludlow to start a new life in Los Angeles.