The film recounts the life of an alcoholic New York writer, Don Birnam, over the last half of a six-year period, and in particular on a weekend alcoholic binge.

A shot of the Manhattan skyline to an apartment, with a whiskey bottle hung outside a window by a thin rope.
Don and his brother Wick are packing for a weekend vacation.
Wick believes that Don, a recovering alcoholic, has been on the wagon for ten days.
After Don's girlfriend Helen St. James arrives to wish them bon voyage, she lets it slip that she has two tickets to a Barbirolli concert, but is going alone.
Don urges his brother to go with her and says they'll take a later train for their weekend trip.
Wick, having disposed of his brother's hidden supply of drink, becomes suspicious of why he is being hustled out.
Don angrily demands time to gather his thoughts alone.
Wick reluctantly agrees to go and reassures Helen he has found Don's hidden supply of alcohol and points out Don is broke.
After they leave, Don frantically tries to find alcohol he has hidden.
The cleaning lady arrives for work, but Don sends her away and then steals the wages left for her by his brother.

Don takes the stolen money to Nat's Bar on Third Avenue, based on the legendary P. J. Clarke's, and gets drunk, missing the train he is meant to catch.
Wick, effectively rejecting his brother, intends to leave without him, though Helen is wary of leaving Don alone for four days.
She is very busy with her work at Time magazine.
As Wick is leaving the building, he urges Helen to give herself a chance by dropping Don.
Helen waits.
Don sneaks into his apartment to avoid her so he can drink.
He quickly hides the cheap whiskey he has bought in addition to the many drinks at the bar.
The following morning he finds a message from Helen pinned to his front door, urging him to call her.

Later at the bar, owner Nat voices his distaste for how Don treats Helen and another girl who hangs out at the bar.
Don recounts to Nat how he met Helen three years earlier at the Metropolitan Opera after a matinee performance of La Traviata.
As he is checking his coat, he slides a pint of rye in his raincoat pocket.
During the performance, he becomes agitated during "Libiamo ne' lieti calici", the "drinking song" in the first act.
He cannot think of anything but the alcohol in the hands of the players and the bottle of rye in his pocket.
He abruptly leaves the performance, and upon collecting his coat is presented with a woman's leopard-skin coat.
He becomes irritated that he can't get his own coat and is forced to wait until the only person remaining in the area, is the woman with his hat and coat.
He is incredibly rude to her, but he makes a quick recovery with his manners and she invites him to a party.
He declines, but as shifts his coat off his arm, the flask falls out of his pocket and smashes on the sidewalk.
He tells a lie that it's for a friend, and asks if he can still go along to the cocktail party.
He tells the bartender he chose not to drink that night... for her.

Their relationship becomes serious.
One day he is due to meet Helen's parents, visiting from Toledo, Ohio, whom he overhears discussing his character flaws in the hotel lobby.
Overpowered by anxiety, he escapes into the phone booth as Helen arrives and, while clandestinely observing her, calls and asks her to go ahead with lunch without him.
This incident caused his return to drinking.
Later, after Wick attempts to cover for Don's absence by telling Helen that Don is in Philadelphia, Don emerges from hiding and confesses his alcohol problem to Helen.
He recognizes himself as two people: 'Don the writer' and 'Don the drunk', who is dependent on his brother.
Don explains that he dropped out of college, identified earlier as Cornell, because he was convinced he was already a Hemingway, a "great writer."
As he began to doubt his writing talent, he found solace in drink.
Don says he can only develop writing ideas while drunk, but he forgets them when sober.
Don suggests Helen drop him, but his words only strengthen Helen's resolve to help Don.

The story returns to the present.
Don cannot find a hidden bottle of whiskey, but discovers the name of a bar he has not visited before on a pack of matches.
In order to pay his bill at Harry & Joe's, he steals a woman's handbag, takes it into the men's room, and manages to extract enough money to pay his bill.
The woman, though, has recognized the theft, and he is identified as the culprit.
He admits he has taken her money.
The woman takes pity on him in his drunken state and does not press charges.
He is told not to return and thrown out.
After he returns to his apartment, he ransacks the place looking for the bottle he had hidden during the previous night's drinking session.
Unable to find it, he collapses exhausted in a chair and looks up to see the bottle stashed in the ceiling light fixture.
Laughing bitterly at his own ridiculous antics, he retrieves the bottle and proceeds to drink himself unconscious.