for educational use only                                        for educational use only

                                    www.script-fix.com




                                 THE LAST SAMURAI

                                           by

                                      John Logan



                                     Revisions by
                           Edward Zwick & Marshall Herskovitz

                                                                                  1.
Fade In:

A BRIGHT BLUE TIGER

Surrounded by a pack of dogs, ten of them snarling and gnashing their teeth.
The TIGER'S, eyes burn with fury as he wheels in a circle, lunging at one
dog clawing at another, keeping them all at bay.

Suddenly, the TIGER leaps over the dogs and transforms into a WHITE
BIRD, soaring majestically into the sky.


THE FACE OF A JAPANESE MAN


Sits up into frame, sweating, waking from a dream. He is KATSUMOTO.
We will come to know him later.

Fade to black. CREDITS OVER.

The faint SOUND of a BRASS BAND.

                                               WINCHESTER REP (V.O.)
                           the leader in all forms of armament used by the
                           United States Army. When you need a friend,
                           Winchester is by your side.         .

THE FACE OF AN AMERICAN MAN

As he smokes a cigar, barely listening. CAPTAIN _NATHAN ALGREN,
U.S. Army, ret, 36 years old and looking every da y of it. His eyes are lined
and saddened. He takes a swig from a flask. He is BACKSTAGE at:

INT. CONVENTION HALL              SAN FRANCISCO          DAY

Where a trade show is in progress. Scantily clad lovelies in red-white-and-
blue undies demonstrate the nation's most important new export: arms.
Every weapon imaginable is on display: rifles, pistols, even howitzers. Banners
declaim the virtues of Winchester and Springfield. Of Colt and Remington
and Smith & Wesson. Crowds mill around a stage. where:

                                             WINCHESTER REP
                           Ladies and Gentlemen ... the Winchester
                           Corporation is proud to bring to you... a true
                           American hero. A patriot who has proven his
                           gallantry time and again on the field of battle.

LITTLE TIN SOLDIERS are all lined up. A mass of grey. Rebel troops
surrounding a band of blue Union cavalry. A large, metal diorama.

                                             WINCHESTER REP
                           I hope you will join us in welcoming ...Late of
                           the U.S. Cavalry. The Savior of Sutter Hill ...
                           Captain Nathan Algren!

A last swig. Algren steels himself, then strides onstage as we reveal a banner:

                                                                                     2.
WINCHESTER PRESENTS: THE MIRACLE AT SUTTER'S HILL!

Garish limelight from a row of foot lights illuminates Algren.

                                            ALGREN
                            My thanks, Mr. McCabe... Ladies and Gents.

He looks down at the little metal soldiers and begins to tell the story of the
battle that made him famous. His narration is halting, unsteady:

                                                ALGREN
                            ... On that fateful day, Johnny Reb had us in a
                            spot, perched on the lonely top of Sutter's Hill,
                            nothing but grey as far as the eye could see:
                            Unhorsed and out of ammunition, I gazed down
                            into the, um, mael... mael...
                                      (squints to see better)
                            -maelstrom below us, and saw them moving up.

We realize he is reading from cue cards. The little Rebel soldiers begin sliding
up the metal hill.

                                                ALGREN
                            I knew it was fight or die. Into the teeth of the
                            enemy or we would all be buried... buried ...
                                      (loses his place, under his breath)
                            Shit...
                                      (finds it again)
                            ...on the same hill with our comrades a1ready
                            gone to Merciful Heaven...

A sudden flash:

Algren's mind. The real battle of Sutter's Hill. The grim reality is ver y
different from the dashing tale. Union soldiers scream in agony. Those
horses still alive buck and froth at their tether.                      .

Algren, a lieutenant then, moves among the panicked, bloody men. He stops beside a
PRIVATE, his brother, DAVID ALGREN, 19, blonde, not much more than a boy.

                                             DAVEY
                            They're coming, Nate.

He looks over the wall. Rebel troops are moving up the hill.

                                            ALGREN
                            Keep your head down.

                                              DAVEY
                                    (smiling)
                            Papa alwa ys said we should've joined the navy.

                                             ALGREN
                            What'd he know?
                                    (looks fondly at his brother)
                            You watch me now. Do whatever I say. .

                                                                                   3.

                                             DAVEY
                           Aye-a ye, lieutenant.

Algren punches his shoulder and moves on down the line. Nearby, Algren's
friend, SERGEANT ZEBULAH GANT, though severel y wounded, reloads
his revolver with the last of his ammunition.

                                            GANT
                           How're the horses?

                                              ALGREN
                           Better than you. Smell better, too.
                                    (looks at him)
                           Can you hold on, Zeb?

                                              GANT
                                     (fighting the pain)
                           I got I choice?

Algren smiles sadly. His mend will die loon without medical attention.

Algren moves down the line, bullets whizzing overhead. He kneels beside
COLONEL BAGLEY, his commanding officer.

                                            BAGLEY
                                  (panicking)
                           We need a flag. Find me a goddamn white flag!

                                            ALGREN
                           What are you talking about?!

                                            BAGLEY
                           Surrender, damn it! That's an order!

Back to the convention hall:


                                                ALGREN
                           No thought of surrender among those boy.
                           Better to die as God made us, we thought, as
                           soldiers... So I gave the order. Mister Bugler,
                           sound mount up. Mister Bugler, sound prepare
                           arms. There were only thirty of us, but we had
                           fire in us yet. I looked down the hill at the destiny
                           ordained for us. And gave the order. Mister
                                                             .
                           Bugler, charge!

The little Union cavalry soldiers begin moving down slots in the hill.

On Sutter's Hill:

Algren leads a chaotic cavalry charge down the hill toward the advancing rebel
infantry -- artillery explosi ons - bullets snapping, trees shattering.

Algren's brother, Davey, rides beside him.

                                                                                      4.

The wounded Sergeant Gant pulls himself up, waves his cap and yells.

Bagley remains cowering behind the stone wall.


Back to the convention hall:

                                              ALGREN
                           And straight into them we went...

On Sutter's Hill :

Carnage. Union and Confederate soldiers slam together, falling, drowning in mud
and blood, stepped on by panicked hones.

Algren wields his saber in one hand and his revolver in the other, serving
death on all sides.


A soldier riding next to Davey is shot. A horse falls into a shellhole.

Back to the convention hall:

                                              ALGREN
                           "Hip-hip hurray" we shouted, for we
                           had spirit in us yet--

More flashes:

Algren slices right and left with his saber. He is a truly gifted swordsman.

A tree branch knocks Davey from his horse. He sits, dazed, on the ground.
Algren kills a rebel soldier just as be is about to fire on him.

Single-handedly, be rallies his men, screaming orders, then lifts his wounded
brother onto the saddle beside him.

He leads them downhill toward safel y, Davey clinging to him for dear life.

Back to the convention hall:

                                             ALGREN
                           Before they knew what hit them, we had broken
                           through into the rear of the rebel army.

On Sutter's Hill:

Algren and his men gather in a copse of trees. They are giddy with the exhilaration
of having survived.

                                             DAVEY
                           We did it, bro', WE DID IT! Whoeeeee!!

Algren's smile is shortlived, though.

                                                                                   5.

SUDDENLY, the woods ERUPT with gunfire. Trees are shredded.


Algren's men are literally cut to pieces-

Davey is riddled with bullets, his dead body shielding Algren from harm until
he slides, lifeless, to the mud.

                                                ALGREN
                            Davey---!!!!

Men and horses are torn apart -- they contort and writhe in agony ­ jerking
grotesquely as the bullets rip into them. Algren frantica1ly tries to locate the
source of this firepower. Then he sees:

A Gatling Gun.

Six barrels glisten like steel teeth. This early machine gun is the pinnacle of
current military might -- 60 rounds a second -- a triumph in engineering.

                                        ALGREN
                            AHHHHHHH--!!!!!

With insane courage, he wheels and charges the gun.

Bullets rip into horse and rider alike. Algren falls, lifeless, into the mud.

Back to the convention hall:

                                             ALGREN
                            And the 23rd rode on to glory.

Applause.

At the back of the hall three elegantly dressed JAPANESE MEN watch
Algren's performance. They wear Western frock coats and top hats

                                               ALGREN
                            Now let me: tell you, gentlemen, if there's one
                            thing on earth I could have had with me on that
                            glorious day, it would have been this beauty...

Algren holds up a Winchester repeating rifle.

At the back of the audience we note someone else watching Algren.
SERGEANT ZEBULON GANT, whom we last saw on Sutter's Hill.

                                               ALGREN
                            The Winchester Model '73 lever-action rifle.
                            15 shot capacity, one round-per-second,
                            accurate at 400 yards. You'll note the
                            patented loading port just beneath the
                            cartridge chamber and the smooth
                            cocking action. ...Lets' just see here--

                                                                                          6.

He peers into the ejection port as he cocks the weapon and sights out over the
crowd.

KA-BOOM!!! The report echoes among the screams of the ladies. Dust and
glass fall from a rear chandelier.

                                            ALGREN
                           Smooth trigger action, too.

Audience-members murmur nervousl y.

                                             ALGREN
                           This is, gentlemen, The Gun That Is Winning The
                           West... Step on up and take a look. Mr. McCabe is
                           here to answer any question and take orders. I thank
                           you.

Later...


A Winchester representative is handing Algren an envelope.

                                            WINCHESTER REP
                           What the hell was that?

                                              ALGREN
                           Got their attention, didn't I?

                                            WINCHESTER REP
                           Boston in three weeks. And sober this time.

He goes. Algren immediately starts counting the cash.

INT.           SEEDY HOTEL ROOM                      NIGHT

Algren sits alone on the bed. He takes out a leather-bound journal and begins to write.

                                             ALGREN (V.O.)
                           June 17th, 1876. The dead are with me tonight.
                           They return each time I am obliged to tell their
                           story.

INT.            SQUALID BAR                NIGHT

Algren sips absinthe. He stares at the milky, green liquid before him.

                                                 ALGREN (V.O.)
                           I can almost see them in the shadows, their
                           bodies whole and beautiful once more. Sometimes
                           it's as if they call to me in a sweet invitation --

                                                                                    7.
EXT.                   GAS-LIT STREET              NIGHT


Algren walks in the fog. Sputtering gas lamps give an unearthly glow.


                                             ALGREN (V.O.)
                            "We are dead," they whisper, "and we are happy."


INT.           SEEDY HOTEL ROOM                     NIGHT

Algren is back in the hotel room. From his small suitcase, he takes the
Medal of Honor, looks at it for a long moment.

                                              ALGREN (V.O.)
                            "Do not be afraid," they whisper. "You have been
                            dead, too."

A sudden flash:

We are back on Sutter's Hill. Algren's slaughtered cavalry litter the bloody
ground, dead to the last man. A rebel army surgeon gives a cursory look at
each body before it is loaded onto a wagon.

Algren's turn is no different than the others. He is declared dead and hoisted
unceremoniously onto the pile of corpses.

Back in the. hotel room.:

Algren sits, staring into the middle distance.

                                              ALGREN (V.O.)
                            Is this why they gave their lives? So that I might
                            disgrace their memory?

He reaches into the suitcase and takes out a Colt revol ver. Stares at it, cracks
the cylinder to make sure it's loaded. His finger wraps around the trigger,
the barrel makes its wa y toward his head.

And then, unaccountabl y, he is laughing.

                                             ALGREN (V.O.)
                            And why, after taking so many lives, do I find
                            myself incapable of taking just one more?

A KNOCK on the door. Algren shuts his eyes, then calls out.

                                                 ALGREN
                            Go awa y.

                                              GANT (V .O.)
                            Not exactly the greeting I imagined.

                                                                                                                  8.
Algren looks up. He knows that voice. He carefully puts the revolver back into the suitcase and shuts it before
opening the door.


                                            GANT
                           Thought you'd seen the last of me, I expect.

Algren is filled with emotion, which he tries to hide.


                                              ALGREN
                           Zeb...

They embrace.

                                              ALGREN

                           Sit. Please.


Gant moves to the proffered chair with a pronounced limp.

                                               GANT
                           ... Saw your little melodrama         toda y.
                           Very inspiring... .

                                            ALGREN
                           Given up soldiering to become a critic?

Gant smiles and shakes his head.

                                             GANT
                           Got a job for you, unless you're running for
                           office...

                                              ALGREN
                           I have I job.

                                              GANT
                           I mean a real job. Back in uniform.

                                              ALGREN
                           I' m retired.

                                             GANT
                           I don't mean a U.S. uniform.

Algren looks at him. Curious despite himself.


INT.           RESTAURANT                  NIGHT

Gant leads Algren into a lush San Francisco restaurant. Flickering gaslight
and trays of lobster. COLONEL BENJAMIN BAGLEY (whom we saw in
flashback) sits with the three Japanese men. Bagley's hair has greyed. He

                                                                                  9.
has his eye on a political future.

                                             BAGLEY
                            Nathan, good to see you.

                                              ALGREN
                                    (stunned)
                            Colonel Bagley...

                                              BAGLEY
                            Sit down. This is Mr. Omura, from Japan, and
                            his two associates who, so far as I can tell, don't
                            have names...

OMURA 40, is a handsome and intelligent man. He watches Algren closel y
as Algren pours a glass or whiskey from a decanter.

                                                BAGLEY
                            They're looking to hire real American soldiers to
                            create the first Japanese Imperial Army.

Algren looks at him.

                                               BAGLEY
                            Japan's got it in mind to become a civilized
                            country and they're willing to spend what it takes
                            to hire white experts to do the job right.

Algren takes a slow lip of whiskey.

                                             BAGLEY
                            Sergeant Gant has already agreed to serve. You
                            would be m y second-in-command.

                                             ALGREN.
                            With approval from Washington, of course.

                                               BAGLEY
                            Both governments prefer to consider our mission
                            unofficial. We'd be there as non-combatants
                                               BAGLEY
                                               (MORE)
                            only, advisors to the Japanese officers. Help
                            them with training, ordinance and the like.

                                              GANT
                            You ought to think about it., Captain. Unless
                            you intend to take up a career in the theater.

                                              ALGREN
                            I have an agreement with the Winchester
                            Corporation -- I'm sure these people have some
                            concept of what an agreement is.

                                                                               10.

Omura suddenly speaks. His English is flawless.

                                             OMURA
                            You are paid seven dollars for each performance.
                            You do, on average, fourteen performances a
                            year. We will pay you 400 dollars.

                                               ALGREN
                            A year?

                                               OMURA

                            A month.

Algren looks at him. The figure, in 1876, is staggering.


EXT              SHIP--OCEAN                     DAY

A steamship chums its wa y across the great Pacific. Algren leans on the
ship's rail and looks out into an endless processi on of wa ves.

                                               ALGREN (V.O.)
                            June 23, 1876. It is impossible, standing here,
                            not to appreciate one's, own insignificance.

A dolphin crests the surface, arcing into the air.

                                               ALGREN (V.O.)
                            Here there is neither past, nor future. Only an
                            oblivion of water.

In his tiny cabin, Algren finishes writing in his journal and takes out a
daguerreot ype of a HAUNTINGLY BEAUTIFUL BLOND WOMAN.

                                              ALGREN (V.O.)
                            And yet I ask myself, will the dead follow me
                            across the ocean to this strange new land?

He stares at the woman in the picture.


INT.            SHIP ­ CABIN                 DAY


In the main cabin, Algren sits with Gant and Omura. Algren is drinking.


                                              OMURA
                            ...After the Shogun gave up power, the daimyos ­
                            you would call them warlords --knew that Japan
                            needed a centralized government. So they asked

                                                                                      11.
                                            OMURA (CONT'D)
                           the hereditary Emperor, His Highness the
                           Enlightened Meiji, to lead the country.

                                            ALGREN
                           And these warlords just ... gave up hundreds of
                           years of power?

                                             OMURA
                           Economic incentives were offered. Most
                           provincial leaders saw the financial benefits of
                           modernization.

                                            ALGREN
                           What about those that didn't?

                                             OMURA
                           To deal with those who have resisted, the
                           Emperor has decided to create an Army with
                           allegiance only to him... We considered hiring
                           advisors from Germany, but your Ambassador
                           reminded us of your experience in suppressing rebellious
                           elements in your Civil War.

This evocation of the Civil War is not lost on Algren.

                                          ALGREN
                           Who are we supposed to be fighting against?

                                            OMURA
                           His name is Mori Katsumoto. He is samurai.

                                             ALGREN
                           Samurai?

                                              OMURA
                           The word you might use it "warrior". But that
                           does not quite capture it ... Katsumoto once served
                           the Emperor but he is now a traitor who leads a
                           band of traitors. He must be punished.

Algren looks pointedly at Bagley.

                                               ALGREN
                           You told them about our experiences together
                           on Sutter's Hill, did you, Colonel?

                                           BAGLEY
                           They know I was your commanding officer.
                           Yes.

Algren glares at Bagley, then stands.

                                                                                 12.



                                             ALGREN
                           Excuse me, gentlemen. I need some air.
                                    (to Omura)
                           I'm sure Colonel Bagley can amuse you with
                           more stories of patriotic gore.

He walks away.

                                                 OMURA
                           He is insolent.

                                             BAGLEY
                           Get him in front of the troops, you'll see. Top
                           of his class at West Point. Brilliant tactician.
                           Even wrote a book.

                                            OMURA
                           Why did he leave your army?

                                             BAGLEY
                           What's a hero to do when there's no more great
                           battles?

                                              OMURA
                           Is that an evasive answer?

                                               BAGLEY
                           Sir, this man was left for dead at Sutter's Hill.
                           Doct ors swore his heart had stopped beating,
                           but before they could bury him, he came back to
                           life. After the war he fought the Sioux, the Cree,
                           and the Blackfoot.
                                   (leans closer)      .
                           Point him at the enemy. He was born for it.

INT.                SHIP -- ALGREN'S BERTH                      NIGHT

Algren lies in his cramped berth. Can't sleep.

A sudden flash:

On the wagon of dead bodies, Algren's eyes open to stare into the unblinking
eyes of his brother, Davey, half his face shot off. He tries to move but be is
buried beneath the weight of those piled on top of him. Blood drips down
into his eyes and mouth, blinding and choking him.

Back to the ship:

Algren awakens, bathed in sweat. Terror. A silhouette in the doorwa y.

                                                                                 13.
Colonel Bagley stands looking down at him.

                                                BAGLEY
                            I hope you realize the kind of second chance
                            this is for you. I won't tolerate insubordination.

Algren reaches for a nearby glass, drains it.
                                                ALGREN
                            Court-martial me.

                                              BAGLEY
                            Would you rather I hadn't recommended you
                            for the medal. Nathan? Is that it?

                                             ALGREN
                            We both know why you helped me, Colonel.
                            Don't expect me to go all weepy with gratitude.

                                              BAGLEY
                            I expect you to do your job. Save the self-pity
                            for your own time.

He turns and walks out, leaving Algren to stare at the empty glass.


EXT.                 SHIP                       DAY

Algren and Gant stand at the rail.

                                               GANT
                            Hate boats. If the Lord bad wanted man to sail
                            he wouldn't have created infantry.

                                           ALGREN
                            How many rimes you puke today?

                                                GANT
                            I'm down to two.

Omura comes up next to them.
                                                OMURA
                            I understand you are a scholar, Captain Algren.
                                     (to Gant)
                            Have you read his book., Mr. Gant?

                                                GANT
                            Can't say I have.

                                              OMURA
                            An analysis of the triumph of weapons technology
                            over antiquated military tactics.

                                                                               14.
                                              ALGREN
                                    (wr y)
                           A real page-turner. Sold twelve copies.

                                               OMURA
                           Nonetheless, I was impressed. I enjoy reading
                           military history. I spent two years studying
                           English at Princeton University.

                                           ALGREN
                           And where did you learn to speak Japanese?


Omura is perplexed by Algren's remark, then realizes he is being kidded. He
laughs heartily. Algren laughs with him. A connection is made.

                                              OMURA
                           Yes, and in Japanese there are twenty-seven
                           words for "war." I will be impressed if you learn
                           only half of them. .

He walks away. Algren watches him go. His face darkens.

                                             ALGREN
                           I got twenty-seven words too - Reb, Sioux,
                           Pawnee, Blackfoot, Jappo. Only one language
                           when it comes to war.

EXT.               YOKOHAMA HARBOR                           DAY

Like all Japan, Yokohama is at the cusp of a new era.

Ancient sampans and wooden schooners beside freighters and steamships.

EXT.                YOKOHAMA ­ DOCK                            DAY

After 23 days at sea, they are all glad to climb down the gangplank. The
Yokohama docks are a frenzy of languages and looks and smells and sounds.
Japanese competes with German and English and French and Russian.
Warehouses fl y the flags of a dozen countries.

One striking Japanese character dominates: the symbol for, Omura. It is seen
on buildings, warehouses, and the headbands of scores of laborers.

A series of palanquins, litters carried by bearers, await our voyagers.

As does SIMON GRAHAM, a dissipated Englishman who has lived in Japan
for many yean. Slender and pale, with an occasional consumptive cough, in
his 50's, he wears a white linen suit, a bit worse for wear.

                                              OMURA
                           Captain Algren, this is Mr. Simon Graham. He
                           will be your translator.

                                                                                   15.
                                            GRAHAM
                          Pleasure, Captain.

                                            BAGLEY
                          You'll be quartered at the Embassy for now.

                                          OMURA
                          The Emperor will summon you at his pleasure.

Graham ushers Algren and Gant into their own less-ornate version.

                                            GRAHAM
                          If you please, Captain...

                                           ALGREN
                           They're gonna carry us?

                                            GRAHAM
                          You're guests of the Emperor. You cannot walk.

Algren notes the hoods covering the faces of the palanquin bearers.

                                            ALGREN
                          Why the hoods?

                                             GRAHAM
                          So you won't have to burden your eyes by looking
                          at slaves. Oh, excuse me, they're servants now.
                                    (coughs, wipes a bit of blood)
                          This wa y, gentlemen...

INT /EXT            PALANQUIN - YOKOHAMA STREETS                             DAY

Their bearers maneuver them through the bustling streets of Yokohama.
White face painted geishas walk alongside bearded Russians. Traditional
Japanese kimonos alongside European suits and hats, schizophrenic world
of ancient Japan versus modern commercialism.

                                            GRAHAM
                          Twenty years ago Yokohama was a lovel y little
                          port. Then your Commodore Perry arrived and
                          changed all that.

                                             ALGREN
                          All this in twenty years?

                                             GRAHAM
                          Japan has...embraced... Western wa ys. Hired
                          lawyers from France, doctors from Germany,
                          naval architects from Britain, civil engineers,
                          railway designers, scientists, teachers. And, of
                          course, warriors from the United States.

                                                                                      16.
                                             ALGREN
                           Buying the future.

                                              GRAHAM
                           Or selling the past...


INT.            GUEST QUARTERS                       DAY

A shoji screen is opened by a bowing servant to reveal the clean, classic lines
of a Japanese room. Algren is about to enter when Graham stops him,
indicating for Algren to remove his boots.

Algren scowls, confused, and struggles to pull off the high, filthy boots. He takes
in the foreigness of the room, an arrangement of fl owers on a low table.

                                             ALGREN
                           No chairs? . .

                                               GRAHAM
                           Correct. And this--
                                     (points to a mat)
                           ..is your bed.

                                             ALGREN
                           And this?


He points to a block of wood.

                                             GRAHAM
                           Your pillow.

                                            ALGREN
                           You mean to say there are no real beds in Japan?

                                               GRAHAM
                           For its entire history Japan his been completely
                           aakoku, I "closed country." Thirty years ago, if
                           you had washed up on Japanese soil... you would
                           have been beheaded on sight. Now, they let you
                           keep your head... and give you a wooden pillow.

EXT.           AMERICAN EMBASSY-. GARDEN                     DAYS LATER

In the pristine grounds of the Embassy, a garden party is in progress.
Incongruous lilting Yankee tunes are heard from the Japanese band.

Algren and Gant, now in their dress uniforms wander through the party with Graham.
Liveried servants pall trays of canapés.

Elsewhere we see diplomats representing all the powers currently trying to devour
Japan: Russia; England; Germany; France; Spain; etc.

                                                                                                     17.
                                           GRAHAM
                          I remember when it was just America and the
                          Dutch. Now ever ybody' s getting into the game.

They pass two German diplomats. The Germans glance to Algren and Gant with suspicion, bow tersely.
Graham greets them in German.

                                          GRAHAM
                          The Germans are particularly eager.

                                          ALGREN
                          What do they want?

                                           GRAHAM
                          Same thing your country wants. Most favored
                          nation status.

                                          ALGREN
                          How long have you been in Japan?

                                               GRAHAM
                          Oh, western time quickly loses its meaning here
                          ... I first came as part of the British legation in 1857.
                          But I was soon relieved of m y position, as a result
                          of various...disagreements with the
                          Crown's attitude toward the locals.


Omura separates himself from his entourage and approaches.


                                             OMURA
                          Gentlemen. I hope you are enjoying a taste of
                          home.

                                           ALGREN
                          I've done with worse, believe me.

                                             OMURA
                          America has much to offer us, though. Its'
                          industry and ingenuity are without peer.
                                   (ingratiating)
                          I have spoken to the Emperor about you. He is
                          interested in the most modem theories of warfare.

                                             ALGREN
                          I look forward to the opportunity of meeting
                          him someday.

                                           OMURA
                          You will have that chance sooner than you think.
                          He has requested an audience.

Graham is open-mouthed at this turn of events.

                                                                                       18.

EXT.                  IMPERIAL PALACE                          DAY

Algren and Bagley sit with Graham in an ornate carriage as they cross the
moat and enter the ancestral palace of the Shoguns.

INT.                   IMPERIAL PALACE ­ ANTECHAMBER                            DAY


Algren waits with Bagley and Graham outside the throne room.


                                            GRAHAM
                          Remember that he is arahitogami. A god in
                          human form. During the last two hundred years
                          no emperor was even seen by commoner. You
                          may look at him, with deference, but do not speak
                          unless you are spoken to.

EXT.          IMPERIAL COURT -- THRONE ROOM                      DAY

Algren and Gant are surprised to discover the living god is barely in his
twenties. The divine EMPEROR MEIJI is an intelligent and curious young man,
yet there is a tentativeness about him.

His throne is surrounded by ADVISORS, principal among them is Omura.
Nearby, the American AMBASSADOR SWANBECK a cagey diplomat

The throne room itself is sweeping, beautiful, and extremely restrained. Everywhere,
tasteful displays of the traditional flower of the monarchy: chrysanthemums.
The vibrant yellow bl ossoms haunt the chamber.

As the Emperor considers his guests, Omura whispers into his ear. Then:

                                              OMURA
                          The Emperor bids you welcome. He wishes you
                          to know that he is most grateful for the assistance
                          your country offers ours, in order to rid ourselves
                          of the brutality of the provincial warlords - and
                          to accomplish the same national harmony which
                          you enjoy in your homeland.

The Emperor speaks in Japanese. The advisors are non-plussed, and Omura leans down
for a moment to confer with him, then smiles indulgently:

                                           OMURA
                          The Emperor is most interested in your American
                          Indians, and wishes to know if you have seen
                          them firsthand.

Algren looks at Graham, who nods. He may speak.

                                                                                   19.
                                             ALGREN
                           I have seen many of them, and have fought them,
                           too. They are very brave.

Graham translates. The Emperor nods and smiles.

                                              EMPEROR
                                    (accented English)
                           Thank... you... very ...much.

He stands. Everyone else hurries to follow suit. The audience is over.


EXT.               PALACE GARDEN                       DAY

A1gren, Graham, and Bagley walk through the palace grounds.

                                            BAGLEY
                           That young pup runs this country?

                                             GRAHAM
                           That "pup" runs the country no more than I do.
                           He was installed as a figurehead at age twelve
                           when the warlords realized Japan needed a central
                           government. But don't be fooled -- he may be a
                           powerless god, but to these people he's a god
                           nonetheless.

GENERAL YOSHITAKA appears. He is a seasoned soldier in his 40's. A
decent man. He stops before them, bows quickly.

                                             GRAHAM
                           Gentlemen, may I present General Yoshitaka.
                           He will assist you in training the army.

                                             ALGREN
                           General.

Algren offers his hand. General Yoshitaka does not take it. He bowl his head and
speaks a few words. Graham translates:

                                             YOSHITAKA/GRAHAM
                           He greets you with extreme courtesy and asks if
                           you are ready to meet the Imperial Army.


EXT.           PARADE GROUND                            DAY

About a thousand Japanese soldiers in baggy uniforms are milling around a large
parade ground. Each has an old single shot rifle. Algren, Gant, and Yoshitaka
look down on them from a reviewing stand.


                                             GANT
                           Jesus....

                                                                                          20.

                                             ALGREN
                            Ask the General what training they' ve had.

Graham speaks to General Yoshitaka, then translates his response.

                                                YOSHITAKA/ GRAHAM
                            He sa ys... We have trained them not to shoot
                            their ...asses off.

Algren glances to General Yoshitaka, who looks back wr yl y.


                                               ALGREN
                            Sergeant Gant, have the men stand to attention.

                                            GANT
                            Imperial Army, Atten-tion!

Graham translates, rather mildly.

                                              ALGREN
                            For God's sake, let's not keep it a secret who's in
                            charge here ... Mr. Gant.

                                           GANT
                                   (roars)
                            ALL RIGHT YOU SLANTY-EYED LITTLE
                            BASTARDS STAND UP STRAIGHT OR I
                            WILL SHIT-KICK EVERY ONE OF YOU
                            COCKSUCKERS!!

As the soldiers immediately stand to attention, we begin a montage of the training
of the first Imperial Army:

We see Gant drilling the men. Shouting at his translator. Trying to get them to march
in formation. Algren is nearby, watching.

                                               ALGREN (V.O.)
                            August 4,1876. As I watch this new army train,
                            I cannot help but think of those who rode with
                            me in me 23rd cavalry.

Algren sits in his tent, writing in his journal. Outside, the Japanese are being taught
the basics of firing tactics.

                                              ALGREN (V.O.)
                            For four years they had survived, never once
                            shrinking from the fire. And so, when given my
                            order to charge the advancing rebel infantry,
                            they never hesitated. ...And they all died.

We see Algren showing the Japanese how to fire in formation. The old single-shot
rifles they carry make reloading a painfully slow process.

                                                                                    21.


                                            ALGREN (V .O.)
                           Now I am training another army. In another
                           civil war.

Algren and Gant spar with sabers - Algren's expertise far exceeds Gant's, a
fact which Gant accepts with good humor.

                                             ALGREN (V.O.)
                           Is this why I was spared? Once again to lead
                           men to their death?

It is sunset Algren, Graham, and General Yoshitaka watch the training.
General Yoshitaka speaks.

                                               YOSHlTAKA/ GRAHAM
                           ... the problem is they're peasants. They have
                           never had this sort of responsibility or power.

Algren watches Gant march beside the Japanese. They are illuminated by the
majestic red sunset

                                            ALGREN
                                   (to Graham)
                           Ask him if they have a flag.

Graham translates. Genera1 Yoshitaka responds.

                                               GRAHAM
                           No flag.

                                               ALGREN
                           They need a flag.

EXT.                TOKYO ­ STREET                           EVENING

Tokyo is a city in chaos. Everything seems out of balance. Dystopic. A
collision of Eastern and Western. Algren and Gant watch as Graham prepares
to take a photograph of an old merchant in front of his store.

                                                GRAHAM
                           ... I've been doing this for years. Trying to capture
                           it before it's all gone. Afraid I'm losing the battle.

Algren silently watches the passers-by. Something draws his attention:

Across the street. a man is striding down the crowded sidewalk. His martial
bearings, two swords, traditional dress and unique top knot of hair instantly
identify him to us as a samurai.                                       .

We will meet him again later, he is UJIO. A terse, grim man in his 40's. His
proud gait and rigid, imperious manner intrigue Algren.

                                                                                                        22.
Most of the people on the sidewalk instantly step out of the wa y, bowing in deference. But two young
Japanese in Western dress do not.

Ujio stands before them, waiting for them to move. They don't.
Tense words are exchanged. Ujio glares at them. Algren watches.

                                              ALGREN
                           Mr. Graham...

                                             GRAHAM
                           Ah... now this should be interesting... He's
                           waiting for them to show deference.

Across the street, Uji o barks out some harsh commands to the two
Japanese men. They laugh in response. Then one of the men raises a hand
and barks some clearly disrespectful words back--

Like lightning-- Ujio pulls out his long samurai sword - it flashes --

Cleanly beheading the disrespectful Japanese man --


The beheaded corpse begins to fall--

In one smooth motion, Ujio wipes his blade clean of the corpse as it falls
and sweeps it back into its scabbard. The other man immediately drops to
his belly, prostrating himself.

Without another glance, Ujio walks awa y. His face is completely impassive.

                                            GANT
                           What the hell was that?

                                              GRAHAM
                            That...is a samurai.

INT.          RESTAURANT                         NIGHT

Sergeant Gant gazes unhappily at his dinner: glistening raw fish; tepid
beancurds; boiled rice. Algren, Gant, Graham, and General Yoshitaka sit
cross-legged on the floor. Gant finds this extremely uncomfortable.

                                              GRAHAM
                           ... Before the edicts ever y citizen had to prostrate
                           himself in the presence of a samurai.

                                             ALGREN
                           What edicts are those?

                                            GRAHAM
                           The Council of State has been passing a series
                           of laws designed to eliminate the samurai.


                                              GANT
                           Why?

                                                                               23.

                                             GRAHAM
                           Because you are here now, Sergeant... For the
                           last 800 years guarding Japan and fighting her
                           wars was the exclusive occupation of the samurai.

The next course arrives. Thick, black eel. Gant groans.

                                              GRAHAM
                           Men like Mori Katsumoto were the most elite
                           caste in Japanese societ y until the Council of
                           State -- led by your friend Omura - decided the
                           whole class had to go ...
                                     (munching eel)
                           ... Most of the samurai accepted the new laws.
                           But some didn't. Or couldn't. Like Katsumoto.

General Yoshitaka speaks up. Graham translates:

                                             GRAHAM
                           General Yoshitaka bids you to remember that
                           the word samurai means "one who serves." Their
                           whole existence is based on serving their
                           country as warriors.

Graham finishes translating, then continues on his own:

                                              GRAHAM .
                           Your Imperial Army is taking awa y their only
                           reason for being ... So what are they to do now?

Algren considers this as he pours another cup of sake.
                 .
                                             ALGREN
                           This is sake?

                                              GRAHAM
                           Sake. Rice wine.

                                              YOSHITAKA
                           Hie! Sake.

                                              ALGREN
                           Sake..
                                    (to Yoshitaka)
                           Good.

Yoshitaka nods. Enthusiastically tries an English word.

                                              YOSHITAKA
                           Good!

                                                                               24.
                                              GRAHAM
                           Vexing people, the samurai. Blood-thirsty,
                           honorable, cruel, fabulousl y artistic. Wanted to
                           write a book about them for years, but no
                           Westerner can get close enough.

                                            ALGREN
                           Ask him if he ever saw a samurai in battle.

Graham looks at A1gren.

                                               GRAHAM
                           He is samurai.


Algren looks at Yoshitaka with new eyes.

EXT.                TOKYO ­ STREET                 NIGHT

Later that night.

Algren and Gant, a little drunk by now, wander Tokyo's bustling red light
district. Like Amsterdam, the geishas sit in windows facing the street.

INT.                 GEISHA HOUSE                    NIGHT

This is certainly not the whorehouse they expected. Elegant Japanese
furnishings. Lovel y flute music. The MADAM lowers her head and speaks
quietly in greeting.

                                            GANT
                           My friend and I were looking for some
                           companionship...

The Madam speaks no English. Gant speaks louder, as if to a deaf person.


                                             GANT
                           Ladies of the evening? Hootchie-contchie?
                           Boom-Boom?

                                            ALGREN
                                    ( embarrassed)
                           Zeb.
                                     (tries a bow to the madam)
                           ...so sorry.

Gant flashes a fistful of Japanese currency.

                                            GANT
                           Universal language. boyo.

The Madam nods and bows. Almost magically, two beautifully-dressed
GEISHAS appear, their faces are painted pure white.

                                                                                     25.
One of the Geishas smile. Her teeth are blackened, to better set off the
whiteness of her face paint

                                                GANT
                            That one's yours.

INT.             GEISHA HOUSE ­ ROOM                        NIGHT

Algren and Gant are led into an elegant room with paper screens, and a table
set for the Japanese tea ceremony.                                               .

Gant tries to take the arm of one of the geishas - but she moves awa y,
gesturing for him to sit The other begins the tea ceremony.

                                                ALGREN
                            No tea... Sake.

A musician plays a traditional lute. The geisha begins a graceful fan dance.

                                             GANT
                            Fan dance. Saw this once in Chicago.

Algren smiles at the Geisha preparing the. She smiles back. Algren pours
himself a cup of sake.

Later...

The sake bottle is empty. The interminable lute music continues.

Gant is increasingly agitated as the geisha continues her dance. Algren can't
help but laugh at his frustration. Finally Gant has had enough. He rises, a
bit unsteady from the sake.

                                              GANT
                            Okay, darlin' time to get down to business:

He shoos the musician out of the room, then approaches the geisha, who
shrinks from his intention.

                                               ALGREN
                            Zeb. I don't think she --

                                               GANT
                            She's just shy. Who knows what we white devils
                            have got in our trousers, eh, darlin'?

He takes her arm. She resists - her voice rising.

                                                GANT
                            Come on, now.

He tries to pull her along. Her kimono tears. She calls out in terror. Two men

appear, bouncers presumably, but alight of build.

                                                                                    26.

                                             ALGREN
                           Oh, shit.

The Madam yells angrily at Gant in Japanese. Pushing him out roughly.

                                            GANT
                           Now, hold on there, sister. I paid good money.

One of the bouncers puts his hand, politely, on Gant's arm.

                                             GANT
                           Back off, short-stuff.

This time, the bouncer is more insistent. Gant takes a swing at him. Wrong
move. Before Gant knows what hit him, the little man uses Gant's
momentum in an akido move to flip him to the mat, hard.

Algren can only stare, in awe, at the lethal move. As the second bouncer moves
to confront him, bowing apologetically, Algren speaks in English, smiling,
knowing they can't understand a word he's saying.

                                            ALGREN
                           Obviousl y you can kick the shit out of people
                           much larger than you, so we'll be leaving now...

EXT.               _PARADE GROUND                             DAY

The training continues. We see Gant, now sporting a black eye. Algren
walks with General Yoshitaka and Graham. Graham translates:

                                           YOSHITAKA/ GRAHAM
                           The General wishes to know if you bad a pleasant
                           evening?

Algren looks at Yoshitaka, who gives him. wry look..

                                              ALGREN
                           It was... educational
                                     (Yoshitaka nods)
                           Would the General mind telling me more about
                           our common enemy?

Yoshitaka looks at him. Has Algren deliberately used the word, "enemy,"
knowing that Yoshitaka, too, is a samurai? Algren gives nothing awa y.

                                              YOSHITAKA/GRAHAM
                           ... Mori Katsumoto is an extremely charismatic leader.
                           To those who honor the old ways, he's a hero. His
                           force is estimated at about five hundred and growing
                           by the day. All samurai.

                                           ALGREN
                           What kind of man is be?

Graham translates. General Yoshitaka considers his words.

                                                                              27.

                                              YOSHITAKA/GRAHAM
                           Katsumoto has no fear. He has no pity. He is
                           kotsutai-- the soul of old Japan ... He is my
                           honored kinsman.

                                             ALGREN
                           Kinsman?

                                             YOSHITAKA/GRAHAM
                           We grew up together in Yoshino. Marched
                           together and fought together. He is Kaishaku
                           the brother of my spirit.

Algren considers this as they observe rifle practice. Erratic but
improving. Algren notes Yoshitaka's reaction. The rifles seem to make
him unhappy.

                                           ALGREN
                           Ask him what kind of guns Katsumoto has.


                                            GRAHAM
                           The samurai don't use guns.

                                            ALGREN
                           No, ask him what kind of firearms they have.

Graham obliges. Yoshitaka responds, with disdain:

                                            YOSHITAKA/GRAHAM
                           The samurai no longer dishonor themselves by
                           touching firearms.

Algren is surprised at this bit of information. A servant approaches, bows.

                                            GRAHAM
                           Colonel Bagley requires you.

INT.               TENT              DAY


Colonel Bagley and Algren stand at a map. Omura sits.

                                             ALGREN
                           They're not a fighting unit yet

                                               BAGLEY
                           We have no choice.
                                (refers to the map)
                           --the railroad has been stopped here. Just as it
                           entered Yoshino, Katsumoto's province.

                                                                                   28.
                                                  OMURA
                           Captain, we     cannot govern a country in which
                           we cannot tr    avel freel y. ... Katsumoto's
                           provocation     is strategic. His defeat will
                           demonstrate     to the other disloyal samurai that
                           resistance is   an act devoid of honor.

                                             BAGLEY
                           The rebels don't have a single rifle. They're
                           savages with bows and arrows. You get up there
                           and show 'em how it', done.

                                              ALGREN
                           With respect, sir, I need more time.

                                             OMURA
                           With all due respect. this railroad cannot wait.

         He bows and leaves them alone. Bagley spins on A1gren.

                                             BAGLEY
                           You think we're the only country interested in
                           Japan?! You don't think the Germans and the
                           French would like to oversee the new army?

                                                ALGREN
                           Colonel--

                                              BAGLEY
                                     (brutally)
                           Why do you think we're here, Captain? Because
                           Remington and Colt and Winchester have
                           powerful allies in Washington. We're here to
                           sell a shitload of American guns...and steel...and
                           timber. That shouldn't be bud for a Winchester
                           whore like you to understand.

Algren looks at him, murderously.

                                                ALGREN
                           Yes, air.



EXT.                    RUINED VILLAGE                               DAY

A STEAM ENGINE lends plumes of smoke into the air as it waits. Algren,
Bagley, and General Yoshitaka ride along the railroad line.

The Imperial Army follows, with Sergeant Gant, on foot.

A traditional Japanese village is being torn aside to make room for the railroad
line. Houses are being leveled and black smoke drifts up. The displaced
villagers gather belongings. Omura guards herd them about rather bruta1ly.

                                                                                 29.
Railroad workers are laying a new spur, building a brick station. A1gren notes
the by now familiar Omura symbol on the new water tower and on the
headbands of the guards and workers.

                                            ALGREN
                          What is that sign?

                                             GRAHAM
                          It's the symbol for the Omura Zaibatsu.

                                            ALGREN
                          Zaibatsu?

                                            GRAHAM
                          Old family businesses that own ever ything worth
                          owning. The molt powerful is the Omura
                          Zaibatsu. That's your friend, Omura.

                                            ALGREN
                          They own all of this?

                                            GRAHAM
                          They do now.

SEVERED HEADS on pikes line the road, a warning to those who continue
to resist

                                           ALGREN (V.O.)
                          October 24,1876. Today we entered Kansai
                          province. Here the local warlords have all been
                          convinced to accept the emperor's rule.

They pass a particularly wrenching sight. Villagers kneeling outside what
used to be a Shinto temple. The railroad tracks cut straight through it.

                                            ALGREN (V.O.)
                          Our destination is Yoshino, home of the rebel
                          Katsumoto. Protected by high mountain passes,
                          it can be reached only during the summer
                          months, and even then with great difficulty.

The Army moves on. Ahead are towering mountains.


EXT.                    MOUNTAIN PASS                          DAY


The Imperial Army winds its way up I steep mountain pass.

                                             ALGREN (V.O.)
                          A long march. And then a battle. A new enemy,
                          but the same feeling I had in my guts at twenty-one,
                          in the cornfield at Antietam -- men will die
                          here, today, and will I be among them?

                                                                                  30.

EXT.                    MOUNTAIN PLAIN                        MORNING

Fog. Obscuring everything.

Algren and Bagley, on horseback, wait with Graham. General Yoshitaka and
a few Japanese Commanders are mounted as well. The thousand strong
Japanese Army is on foot They stand, rifles ready.                            ,

                                        ALGREN
                                   (to Graham)
                           Ask him how they'll come at us.

Graham speaks to General Yoshitaka. Yoshitaka responds:

                                             YOSHITAKA/ GRAHAM
                           They'll come straight on. They will push forward
                           and keep on attacking... And he adds that there
                           is no samurai word for "retreat."

Algren prepares himself.

They wait.

General Yoshitaka is suddenly alert. He speaks quietly to Graham.

                                              YOSHITAKA/GRAHAM
                           He sa ys they're coming...

Algren gazes into the thick fog ahead, sees nothing. Bagley looks worried.

                                             BAGLEY
                           Captain Algren, have you posted a rear guard to
                           protect our supply train?

                                             ALGREN
                           Yes.

                                           BAGLEY
                           Who is overseeing their deployment?

Algren is somewhat confused by the question.

                                             ALGREN
                           No one.

                                              BAGLEY
                           Mr. Graham, you will accompany me to the rear.
                           I want to be certain we are protected from any
                           surprise assault.

                                             GRAHAM
                           Yes. Of course.

Before Algren can respond, Bagley has left the front lines with Graham in

                                                                                    31.
tow. Gant watches as they head out of harm's wa y.                      .

                                               GANT
                            Son of a bitch.

                                                ALGREN
                                      (almost to himself)
                            ...I'm going to kill him.

                                            GANT
                            Waste of good ammo.

Gant checks his two revol vers. The methodical clicking of the chambers as
he checks his rounds is the only sound.                                         .

Then absolute silence. A light SNOW begins to fall.

Algren continues to peer into the fog. Nothing.

Then a sound ... distant ... building through the fog...

The steady rumble of horses. Slowl y approaching. Closer and closer...

Algren notes some of the Japanese soldiers are literally shaking in fear.

Algren peers again into the fog. Nothing. But the sound is closer.

Then the sound abruptly stops.

Silence broken only by the murmured prayers of some of the soldiers.

                                              ALGREN
                            Sergeant Gant, order the troops to assume
                            staggered firing positions.

                                             GANT
                            Imperial Army, assume staggered firing positions.

His order is translated. The Japanese soldiers prepare to fire, one
row kneeling, the other standing behind them.

One of the Japanese soldiers faints from sheer tension.

Algren can see nothing through the dense fog. The tension is unbearable.

Then a form on horseback... ghostly... like lame sort of medieval
monster. An elaborate, horned helmet. Sweeping samurai armor.

All we can see it the eerie silhouette in the fog.


Like something from a nightmare.

And then another figure... and another ... as 500 mounted samurai warriors
slowl y move into position.

                                                                                     32.
The Japanese troops are terrified


                                              GANT
                                   (quickly)
                           Hold the line ... hold the line...

The order is translated.

A terrible, beautiful moment of absolute stasis.

Nothing moves.

The Japanese soldiers wait.

The ghostly silhouettes wait.

Silence.

Then -- as if a silent signal were given -- the samurai suddenly CHARGE,
emerging from the fog in a great wave--! The force of a tsunami.

The silence is shattered as the charging samurai roar out ancient war-
cries that chill the blood -- sweeping forward on their hones like
lightning -swords and spears flashing

                                               ALGREN
                           FIRE!

The Japanese troops fire then quickly begin trying to reload their single shot
rifles -- others fumble at the ask and then break and run--

Panic and chaos--

                                               ALGREN
                           Hold the line!

Too late-- the samurai are on them--

They attack with an intensity few have ever seen -- many of the Japanese
soldiers try to escape, turning and running in blind panic -- they are butchered--
run through by the ashigaru, cut inhalf by the naginata.

Those soldiers who laboriousl y try to reload their rifles are quickly
mowed down by ferocious clouds of samurai arrows, fired by mounted
Samurai.

                                             ALGREN
                           Sound fall back! Sound fall back!

A bugler sounds the order. The Army begins to retreat.

But suddenly they are attacked from behind as well! Arrows shoot from the
fog and more mounted samurai appear.

                                                                                     33.

They are surrounded.

Algren, Gant, and the Japanese Offi cers call out orders but all discipline
soon breaks down -- it is every man for himself--

The battle swirls ever ywhere around us. Fleeing soldiers are run through by
lances, run down and trampled by horses.

Each samurai wears individual, vibrantly col ored armor. Various battle
flags sweep through the fog.

Gant uses his two cavalry revolvers -- firing constantly -- finally out of
ammo he drops from his horse in the cavalry st yle and pulls a Winchester
repeating rifle, crouching and quickly firing--

Algren uses his revol ver first -- firing as he turns on his horse -- when
the revol ver is empty he pulls his cavalry saber. He manages to parry
the lethal blows as the Samurai hurtle past --

But one Samurai, his armor all in black, comes at him on a collision course
and SLAMS INTO HIM, sending both horse and rider to the ground.

Algren scrambles to his feet, his saber nowhere to be found as another
rider heads toward him carrying a lance.

Algren manages to grab it and throw the rider to the ground, wrestling the
lance from his grip and running him through.

In the midst of the battle we notice a peculiar thing. One samurai is just sitting
on his horse. Watching Algren. This samurai wears a BLACK MASK.

The MASKED SAMUARI watches Algren fight.

Algren now wields the lance to battle the horsemen as they sweep past. He
spears one and then unseats another. When a third samurai cuts his lance in
half, Algren uses the remaining half as a club to take him down.

The Masked Samurai continues to watch Algren. Algren's tenacity is amazing.
He continues to fight with heroic passion, refusing to give an inch, long after
Those around him have fled.

Then a blaze of bright yellow ­ a samurai in yellow armor galloping past, firing
arrows steadily from horseback. His control and speed are astounding.

We will come to know him as YORITOMO, a handsome young samurai.

Yoritomo fires arrow upon arrow ­ the speed is breathtaking ­ Two arrows
slam into Gant, knocking him to the ground.

The battle, meanwhile, has become a rout. Those Imperial soldiers who fight
are easily cut down. Those who flee are run down like prey.

Left alone, Algren finds himself confronted by ashigaru ­ samurai foot
soldiers carrying pikes. He turns to discover his retreat cut off by other

                                                                                                         34.
samurai wielding katana ­ the lethal long sword.

But rather than give any quarter, Algren launches an attack. He kills one
samurai before he is RUN THROUGH, at the shoulder, by a lance.

In agony, Algren SNAPS OFF the hilt of the lance, leaving its tip buried
deep in his chest, and fights on.

He manages to parry a blow ­ which SLICES into his side. The next blow
takes off a piece of his scalp. Blood fl ows down his faces and into his eyes.

Algren is now surrounded by ten samurai. A man's heroic stand against
certain death is of great interest to them. As they begin to close in, Algren
whirls the lance around, a tattered battle-flag with TIGER INSIGNIA still
dangling from the end.

The MASKED SAMURAI removes his mask. It is the JAPANESE MAN,
whose dream of the tiger we glimpsed at the beginning of the story. His
eyes wide in surprise, he watches his dream come to life--the blue tiger
holding the dogs at bay.

In SLOW MOTION Algren whirls the lance, as one samurai, wearing
BLOOD-RED ARMOR, advances. With a murderous smile, he draws his
katana.
Algren seems spent ­ he drops to one knee, swaying, on the brink of losing
consciousness.
                                                                      .
But as the RED SAMURAI, lets out a battle cry and propels himself forward for the death blow - Algren
suddenly LEAPS UP and propels the jagged wooden end of the broken lance into the unprotected throat of his
attacker.

As the samurai falls, the rest of his comrades close in to cut Algren off.

A harsh COMMAND stops them in their tracks.

The Masked Samurai leaps from his horse. Everyone steps aside deferentially
so that be might pass by without being jostled.                    .

He looks down at Algren, then removes his battle helmet.

And we meet _MORI KATSUMOTO, the leader of the samurai. He it an
imposing man of about Algren's years.

Sensing that he is about to be killed, Algren pulls himself t o his knees, and SWINGS his saber at Katsumoto.
With blinding speed, Katsumoto pulls his katana from its scabbard.

Algren's saber is SNAPPED CLEANLY IN TWO.

Katsumoto looks down at Algren.

Then Gant appears behind Katsumoto -- limping toward him, cocking his
rifle, urgently trying to save Algren--

Ujio, (the Samurai we saw earlier on the streets of Tokyo) leaps to
protect his Lord. His sword flashes--

                                                                                                      35.
Gant is eviscerated. Algren watches in horror.

A dreadful beat as Gant stands, pathetically trying to hold his guts in. Then he
sinks to his knees.

Katsumoto turns, leaps back onto his horse and trots off.

Algren finally wrenches himself from under his horse. He crawls to Gant,
blood pouring from his own injured back and shoulder.

Gant is dead.

Algren looks up to see the battle is lost. The Japanese soldiers have fled.
Or are surrendering, injured or dead.

And he sees one other thing. General Yoshitaka is still on his horse,
head down. He has not pulled his sword. He has not been hurt.

Katsumoto rides to Yoshitaka. A few serious words are exchanged. Katsumoto bows his bead in respect, seems
to agree to something.

Both men climb from their horses. General Yoshitaka pulls out a small b1ade and hands it to Katsumoto, who
holds it out firmly.

General Yoshitaka quickly and calmly pulls himself on to the blade, plunging
it into his stomach, embracing Katsumoto.

It is seppuku -- the traditional form of samurai suicide.

Algren watches, stunned.

Then a terrible scream cuts through the battlefield.

Algren sees samurai calmly walking among the injured and captured Imperial
soldiers .. killing them one by one with a single stroke.

Algren looks over the slaughter.

And then passes out, bill wounds overcoming him.

Fade to...

EXT.                    MOUNTAIN PASS                               DAY

Algren is unconscious, tied to a horse.

The mounted samurai move up a treacherous mountain pass, disappearing
into the soaring mountains of Yoshino.

EXT.              VILLAGE                                    SUNSET

Katsumoto's village is the other Japan. The Japan we have not yet seen.

The gorgeous mountain scenery of Yoshino envelopes the village. Snow-
capped mountains soar in the distance. A valley below with rice fields.

                                                                                    36.

After the turmoil of Tokyo, this place seems a bucolic paradise. Traditional,
wooden Japanese architecture. Farming. The sense of harmony so markedly
absent from the cities.

Algren, barely conscious, hunches over his horse. He has lost a lot of blood.

Katsumoto leads his samurai into the village. As he passes, ever y person in
the village touches his or her forehead to the ground to show respect.

Most of these villagers have never seen a white face and gaze at Algren with
curiosity. And suspicion.

Katsumoto dismounts in a large square, the rest of his men follow suit. A samurai
helps Algren painfully slide from his horse.

Katsumoto moves to the steps of the largest house. His officers fall
into formation around him. Algren notes Ujio - the grim samurai who killed
Gant -- in jet black armor, glaring at him coldl y.

Ujio walks forward and SCREAMS at Algren in Japanese. Algren doesn't
move. This only makes Ujio more angry. He paces back and forth like a
caged panther spitting invective at Algren.

Algren doesn't move. He watches Uji o evenly. This takes incredible will.
His wounds are so bad that- he can barely stand.

SUDDENLY - Ujio draws his long sword -- it slashes through the air - the
blade singing -- and stops an inch away from Algren's face!
Algren doesn't move.

Ujio brings the cutting edge' into contact with Algren's check. Blood runs
where even this feather-light touch cuts Algren's skin. Algren doesn't move.

Ujio glares at him. Then sheathes his sword and walks away.

Katsumoto looks at Algren deepl y, gauging him. Then be speaks. In English.
Algren is surprised.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           You cannot escape. We are deep in the mountains
                           and winter is coming.

Katsumoto turns and walks into his house. Uji o follows him. Algren collapses.

Fade to black.

As Algren begins his time at the heart of the samurai world.


INT.                        YORITOMO'S HOUSE                           NIGHT

Algren'. eyes open...

A WOMAN is leaning close, her eyes intent on the task of sewing up his
wound. She is beautiful, but he is not really conscious enough to notice, or

                                                                                      37.
even feel the pain. He blacks out again.

INT.                    YORITOMO'S HOUSE                      NIGHT

Algren wakes again. He is lying on a simple mat. His injuries are such that
he can barely move his head. He takes in the traditional Japanese furnishings.

A red ball rolls across the floor. And after it... TOSHIIE, a little boy. around
four. The boy l ooks at Algren. offers him the ball. Smiles.


A1gren blacks out...


INT                      YORITOMO'S HOUSE                       ANOTHER DAY

Algren's eyes open...

Through the archway he can see Toshiie and his older brother HIGEN, around
ten. Also the beautiful WOMAN who earlier was stitching his wound.

From his recumbent position, Algren watches as she ministers to the boys,
who are dearly her sons. Algren is fascinated by her grace and the sweet
attention she gives them.

She seems to sense him. Her eyes raise, meet bit. She speaks to someone,
and YORITOMO appears. He is twenty-one, too young to be the woman's
husband. Yoritomo comes into Algren's room. Speaks to him.


Algren shakes his head. Doesn't understand


Yoritomo speaks to the woman, who approaches and places bowl of soup
in front of Algren. He ignores it

The boys stand in the doorwa y. Yoritomo shoos them awa y.


Algren glances up at the: woman. Her eyes avoid his, her expression is opaque.


INT.                      YORITOMO'S HOUSE                              ANOTHER DAY

Algren now sits in the main room. The woman is changing the dressing on
his wounded right shoulder and arm.

Yoritomo kneels across from Algren. He is impressed at the many battle
wounds on Algren's body; the old bullet wounds and scars. In Japanese, he
indicates his admiration.

Algren his no idea what Yoritomo is saying. Finally he interrupts with the
only Japanese word he has bothered to learn:

                                               ALGREN
                            Sake.

                                                                                 38.

Yoritomo's face breaks into a wide smile.

                                             YORITOMO
                           Sake?

                                             ALGREN
                           Sake.

Yoritomo glances to the woman. She nods, and brings A1gren a saucer of
sake. He drinks it down. Holds out the saucer for a refill

Smiling, Yoritomo indicates for the woman to comply, but before she can
pour another saucer, Algren takes the jug out of her other hand. Yoritomo
laughs as Algren drinks it down.

EXT.                       VILLAGE                               NIGHT

Autumn leaves fall to the ground. In a tiny hut, the village swordsmith begins
work on a samurai blade.

INT.                   YORITOMO'S HOUSE                        NIGHT

Algren writhes on his mat. Trapped in his recurrent nightmare.

A sudden flash:

The wagonload of the dead. Davey's bl oody corpse closes in on Algren
suffocating him.

Back in the house

Yoritomo and the woman are asleep in separate rooms.


A piercing SCREAM shatters the night


EXT.                 VILLAGE                        FOLLOWING

The screaming continues. Lamps are lit around the village...


INT.                YORITOMO'S HOUSE                   FOLLOWING

Yoritomo and the woman hurry to Algren's room --

Algren in the throes of his recurring nightmare - awakens, disoriented.


                                             ALGREN
                           Sake.

Yoritomo and the woman confer. Yoritomo looks It Algren and shakes his
head, no.

                                                                                      39.

                                              ALGREN
                           SAKE!

Yoritomo refuses -- Algren roars and tries to rise. Laughing at Algren's
ferocit y in his weakened condition, Yoritomo easily pushes him back down.

Algren folds in on himself, rocking like a feral animal.


EXT.                  YORITOMO'S HOUSE                              NIGHT

Katsumoto stands outside the house, drawn by the commotion. Ujio stands
with him, shaking his bead.

                                             UJIO
                                   (subtitles)
                           My lord, why do you spare the barbarian? He is
                           shamed in defeat, be should kill himse1f.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                                   (subtitles)
                           The barbarian doesn't know hit shame.

                                              UJIO
                                   (subtitles)
                           Then I will kill him.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                                   (pats him; subtitles)
                           Ujio-San, he will still be shamed tomorrow or in
                           a month. For now there are things I wish to learn.

EXT.                      VILLAGE                      DAY

A glimpse of village life -- fish are hung on lines to dry, children chase each
Other, clothes are washed in the river, and in the rice fields below, farmers
squat as they have for thousands of years. In his hut, the swordsmith
continues to hammer and fold the blade.

INT.                YORITOMO'S HOUSE                       NIGHT

Algren sits hunched in a dark corner. His body is convulsed with shivering.
His withdrawal from alcohol, his wounds, his isolation and his imagined sins
are devouring him.                                                                .

Then we see he is not alone. The woman stands in the doorway, watching
him closel y. Finally she enters with a bowl of soup.

He glances up, something like panic in his eyes.

She kneels and attempts to hand him the soup, but be knocks it out of the
wa y and grabs her by the throat.

                                                                                     40.
                                               ALGREN
                            Sake!

She stares at him, the breath being squeezed out of her, but there is not even
a whisper of fear in her eyes. She is utterly impassive. Shaken, he lets her
go, and crumples to the floor.                         .

                                             ALGREN
                                      (mumbling to himself)
                            Sake...

The woman leaves the soup and wa1ks away.


INT.                    YORITOMO'S HOUSE                           DAYS LATER

Daylight streams in, finding Algren lying on his back. The worst of the detox
is past. As be lies there, these first moments of repose lead to:

A sudden flash of memory:

The beautiful blond WOMAN from the picture laughs merrily, and falls
back languorousl y in a grassy fi eld.

Back in the room

Algren shakes off the memory as harsh SOUNDS from outside draw him to
the window.                  .

EXT.                    YORITOMO'S HOUSE                      MORNING

Algren watches from the window as the samurai train. It is like nothing else
in the world. Part sacred ritual, part martial preparation, samurai training
com bines athletic prowess and graceful artistry into one effortless whole.

Finally well enough to walk, Algren comes out onto the porch to watch the
spectacle. In front of him, is a Kendo (The Way of the Sword) master
practice with their long and short swords. They have incredible control.

NAKAO, a mountain of a man, is a Karate master. He stands unarmed,
four samurai facing him. They attack with wooden swords. He effortlessly
defeats them -- the agility of the huge man is shocking.

Kyudo ("The Way of the Bow") masters use their bows for target practice.
Yoritomo holds a bundle of arrows. In the distance, a line of plums.

Algren watches. Yoritomo just seems to stand there, his eyes hall-open.

And then -- in a stunning blaze of movement -- Yoritomo fires the arrows --
one after another, amazingly fast -- cleanly hitting each plum. The final arrow
splits the previous one as it buries itself in the tree.

A wooden sword leans against the porch.

Algren idly picks it up, feeling its balance. In a flash, Uji o has raced over and
grabbed it from him. Algren stands motionless as Ujio screams at him.

                                                                                  41.


The training stops, as everyone watches Uji o berate Algren.

Even as Ujio continues screaming. Algren simply shakes his head, turns
awa y, and walk back into the house.

INT.               YORITOMO'S HOUSE                         DAY

As the sounds of training resume outside, Algren explores the house.

He comes upon Higen and Toshiie playing with the red ball. They are
embarrassed to encounter him alone. There's a moment of suspension, and
then Higen throws the ball to Algren.

Algren looks back and forth between the two boys, fixes his gaze on Higen
but throw the ball to Toshiie, causing both boys to laugh and run awa y.

Algren walks on.

INT.                SMALL ROOM                           DAY


Algren opens a sliding shojii screen and discovers a small room that has been
made into a kind of shrine.

Cand1es and incense burn, a small Buddha sits on a dais, and Algren's eyes
are drawn to what seems like an apparition standing in the corner.

The BRIGHT RED ARMOR of the warrior Algren killed in the fog, is held
upright by an unseen stand. It is almost as if the dead warrior himself is
swing back at him.

Algren senses someone behind him and turns. The woman is standing across
the hall. Their eyes meet. She turn, and walks away.

EXT.               VILLAGE                            NIGHT

A first, light snowfall has covered the ground. A1gren walks out into the still
night. He turns a corner and confronts curious sight:

Ten warriors kneel, motionless in the snow, their eyes closed in concentration.

As Algren puzzles over this, he becomes aware that Katsumoto is now
standing next to him.

                                                   KATSUMOTO
                              They are training.

                                                   ALGREN
                              Training what?

                                                 KATSUMOTO
                              Their minds. It is called bushido...

                                                                                   42.

Algren looks at him. He has never heard the word.


                                           KATSUMOTO
                       The wa y of the warrior. We study from when
                       we are young. Are my words correct?

Algren does not respond.

                                              KATSUMOTO
                            I will practice my Eng1ish with you.

                                            ALGREN
                            Why do you learn English?

                                            KATSUMOTO
                            To know m y enemy.

                                             ALGREN
                            If I am your enemy, why have you not killed
                            me?

Katsumoto doesn't answer.

                                           ALGREN
                            Was General Yoshitaka your enemy?

                                             KATSUMOTO
                            No, I honor his memory as my kinsman.

                                            ALGREN
                            That why you helped him kill himself?

                                                KATSUMOTO
                            If a samurai is defeated in battle, he must take
                            his own life to spare himse1f the shame of capture.
                            It is required that his kaishaku his trusted friend,
                            help him. I was honored to by his kaishaku.

                                                ALGREN
                            Hell of an honor.

                                               KATSUMOTO
                            It was his destiny. He knew it, he died at peace.

                                            ALGREN
                            Who was the warrior in the red armor?

                                            KATSUMOTO
                            My son-in-law. His name was Hiroshi.

                                           ALGREN
                            And the woman who cares for me?

                                                                               43.
                                           KATSUMOTO
                           My daughter, Hiroshi's wife. Her name is Taka.

         Algren is incredulous.

                                             ALGREN
                           I killed her husband?

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           It was an honorable death.

Katsumoto walks awa y.


INT.             YORITOMO'S HOUSE                       DAY

Algren it now well enough to kneel at the table with the others. Taka treats
him with utter politeness and dignity. He watches her intently, seeking any
sign of the animosity he's certain she must feel.

She hands him a bowl of rice.

                                           ALGREN
                                  (smiling politely)
                           You hope I choke on it, don't you?

She bows, uncomprehending.

                                             ALGREN
                           You want to poison it and watch me fall over
                           the table and foam at the mouth.
Yoritomo bows in response to Algren's new willingness to communicate.

                                             YORITOMO
                                   (to Taka, subtitles)
                           I promise I'll make him take a bath.

                                             TAKA
                                   (subtitles)
                           Soon. Please.

.EXT.             VILLAGE -- BATHING TUB                            DAY

Yoritomo leads Algren to a large, wooden bathing tub in I secluded part of
the village. A banked fire smolders beneath it.

Embarrassed, Yoritomo indicates to Algren that be needs to bathe. Algren
strips off his filthy uniform then lowers himself into the steaming water.

Yoritomo begins taking off hit own kimono. A1gren is taken aback. Used to
Western privacy, he is a bit disquieted about bathing with another man.

Yoritomo, unconcerned, climbs into the tub. He chats pleasantly as they
bathe, showing off his old battle wounds.

                                                                                      44.
Algren's discomfort turns to outright alarm when a toothless old grandmother
appears. .She happily strips and joins them in the tub!

Algren sinks a little lower into the water. The old grandmother smiles at
him with her toothless grin.

EXT.            VILLAGE                          DAY

Algren. feeling self-conscious in the clean kimono he's wearing for the first
time, walks back with Yoritomo. Kids start walking with them, pointing at
his Japanese garb, laughing as he stumbles in his wooden clogs. They pass
by Ujio training a group of samurai using wooden kendo swords.

Nearby, Higen and Toshiie are imitating the grown-ups, sparring with wooden
swords that are much too big for them. Yoritomo watches his nephews proudly,
murmuring details of their prowess to Algren, who has no idea what he's talking
about.

Higen charges his little brother, but goes careening past, right toward Algren,
who deftl y dodges out of the wa y. This causes gales of laughter from the
boys, one of whom takes Toshiie's sword and offers it to Algren.

Algren looks at the sword in his hand and unthinkingly twirls if with a f1ourish --
causing the boys to applaud. Yoritomo bows, and encourages A1gren in
Higen's direction. Algren shakes his head politely, but Higen is already on
the attack.

Algren dodges one thrust, then parries another, as the boys begin to cheer.

Suddenly, ever yone goes silent. Algren turns.

Ujio is standing behind him, arms folded.

Ujio barks a command in Japanese. He wants Algren to drop the sword.
It is obvious to Algren what it must mean, but he does nothing.

Ujio approaches Algren slowl y. Algren holds the wooden sword casually,
only his eyes betraying the tension of the moment.

Ujio's wooden sword FLASHES, quicker than the eye can follow. Algren's
sword is knocked from his hands, then, somehow in the same fluid
movement, Ujio brings the sword around and cracks Algren across the
chest hard enough to knock the breath from his body and lend him to his
kneels.

Satisfied with himself, Uji o starts to walk away, but the expressions of the
bystanders cause him to turn back: .

Algren is standing again, and again holding the sword.

With grim purpose, Uji o returns to Algren, who has assumed a ready pose.

Again Ujio's SWORD FLASHES. Algren manages to parry one blow, before
he is cracked across the face, and blood begins to flow free1y from his nose.

                                                                                          45.
 Ujio knocks Algren's legs out from under him, and while Algren is sprawling
on the ground, Ujio kicks Algren's sword out of his hand, and starts away.

Again, Algren manages to stand up, and before Ujio can turn, charges him.

But Uji o doesn't need to turn. In a sliding move, he dodges and cracks Algren
in the side, then the legs, then the neck. Gasping for breath, at least one rib broken,
Algren writhes on the ground. Ujio digs the point of his sword into
Algren's hand until he releases his grip. Again Ujio kicks the sword away.

The ever-enlarging crowd gasps as Algren once again struggles to his feet.
This time without hesitation, Uji o runs back and rains blows upon Algren's
now defenseless body. First the wrist, then the back, then the stomach, then
finally the head.

Algren hits the ground, unconscious, his fingers still clutching the sword.
Ujio reaches down, pries it from his fingers, and breaks it across his knee.

INT.              YORITOMO'S HOUSE                                   EVENING

Algren lies painfully on a mat, his eyes unfocused.


A sudden flash of memory:

The lovel y blond woman, tears in her eyes, looks up to Algren's shining face,
the epaulets on his crisp officer's, uniform gleaming gold in the sun.

The reverie is broken.

As Taka kneels to swab the cuts on his face. He stares at her darkly.

                                            ALGREN
                         Who are you people anywa y?

She makes no attempt to understand or respond.

                                               ALGREN
                         You have no God, you have no mercy, you don't
                         even have any fucking walls. Your walls are
                         made of paper, what's the matter with you?

She pushes his head aside so she can attend to his neck.

                                                 ALGREN
                         This man tries to kill me and I've done nothing
                         to him, and you, I kill your husband and you act
                         like, what? Like I'm a guest in your house.
                         What is wrong with you?

This last said so intensely that she glances at him before picking up a bowl
of soup she had brought for him, and bringing it to his lips...

                                               ALGREN
                         Do you have a soul at all?

                                                                                  46.

He stares at her for a moment, then knocks the soup out of her blinds.

Her eyes FLASH for one moment, before resuming their usual mildness.
But that flash is enough to satisfy him, and he calms down. She walks away.
He sighs, exhausted, only to see her approach again with a new bowl. Their
eyes meet, and hold for a moment. She does have a soul. He takes a sip.

INT.                 SHINTO SHRINE                        DAY

Algren is led past baldheaded monks into an ancient shrine. Katsumoto
kneels before a small altar. He doesn't seem aware that Algren is present.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                           Ujio is teaching you the wa y of the Japanese sword.

                                              ALGREN
                           Is that what he's doing?

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           At what age did you become I soldier?

                                              ALGREN
                           Nineteen.

                                             KA TSUMOTO
                           To fight in your American civil war.

                                              ALGREN
                           Yes.

                                             KA TSUMOTO
                           Tell me about that war'.

                                              ALGREN
                           What about it?

                                              KATSUMOTO
                           Everything.

                                            ALGREN
                           Everything about the civil war?


Katsumoto sits impassively, staring at the altar.

                                            ALGREN
                           That would take a year.

                                           KATSUMOTO
                           You have pressing business elsewhere?

Shaking his head, Algren sits down.

                                                                                             47.


                                              ALGREN
                           The civil war began on April 12. 1861 when the
                           rebs attacked Fort Sumter. Well, actually, it
                           probabl y began three years earlier when the
                           Supreme Court decided a runaway slave had to
                           be returned to his master

                                                                               DISOLVE TO:

The TWO OF THEM, hours later--

                                              ALGREN
                           --and Pickett says he wants to do it, over
                           Longstreet's objections and Lee doesn't know
                           what to think, but he lets him. So 15,000 men
                           go up that hill. And most of them die.

                                                KATSUMOTO
                           Was that wise?

                                                ALGREN
                           No, it was stupid.

                                                KATSUMOTO
                           Why?

                                             ALGREN
                           The point of a battle is to win, or at least have
                           enough men survive to fight another day.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                           You did not try to survive when we took you
                           prisoner.

Algren eyes him, frustrated.

                                          ALGREN
                           What do you want from me?

                                          KATSUMOTO
                           What do you want for yourself?

                                           ALGREN
                           You know they're not going to ransom me.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                           We have little use for money.

                                                                                   48.
                                              ALGREN
                                     (mounting fury)
                            Then what are you doing, why are you asking me
                            these questions, what is going on here?

                                               KATSUMOTO
                            The snows will melt in May, and the passes will
                            open, and the events of the world will unfold.
                            Until that time, you are here.
                                     (smiles)
                            I enjoyed this conversation in your English. I
                            hope you will honor me with more tomorrow.

Katsumoto stands, bows, and leaves.


INT.                  YORITOMO'S HOUSE                             DAY

Young Toshiie sits near Algren. He labors over a scroll with a brush, the
gentle brush strokes are hypnotic as they sweep across the rice paper.

Algren tries to indicate that he would like pen and paper for himself. Toshiie
gives him what he asks. Algren begins to write:

                                              ALGREN (V.O.)
                       Day unknown, month unknown, 1876. I continue
                       to live among these strange people.

EXT.                        VILLAGE                            DAY

Katsumoto watches Ujio bark orders to the men he is training. A sudden
Movement of their eyes, causes Uji o to stop. He turns to find:

Algren standing at the end of the line, holding I wooden sword.

An almost imperceptible look passes bet ween Ujio and Katsumoto, but Ujio's
Resentment is over-ruled. Without a word, he continues.


Algren does his best to follow the exercise.


Katsumoto, the slightest hint of a smile on his face, walks away.

                                              ALGREN (V.O.)
                            Each day I am confounded by their strange customs
                            and contradictions, savagery followed by
                            mildness.

INT.            YORITOMO'S HOUSE                          NIGHT

Algren now kneels at the table with the rest of the family as they eat. He is
in considerable pain from the rigors of training. He tries to roll the stiffness
out of his neck, when be notices that Higen it imitating him. Toshiie laughs.

                                                                                                     49.
                                               ALGREN (V.O.)
                            They seem to value nothing more than their
                            families, and yet they kill defenseless wounded
                            men without a shade of remorse..

Yoritomo sternly tells Higen not to make fun of their guest. Yoritomo
apologizes to Algren, who shakes his head unnecessary.

                                               ALGREN
.                           Raisu? [Rice?]

They stop, shocked. He has spoken!

Yoritomo calls for Taka to serve him more rice, then begins yammering
enthusiastically in Japanese. Algren holds up his hand.

                                              ALGREN
                            Not so fast Ko...toba? [Words?]
                                     (bolds up chopsticks)
                            What is this?

                                               YORITOMO
                            Hashi.

                                               ALGREN
                            Hashi.

Yoritomo is hysterical with glee now.

                                               YORITOMO
                            Hail!

The boys are suddenly dervishes, pulling various objects from the table and around the room, shouting the
Japanese words for each.

Algren shakes his head, and smiles for the first time in this stor y.

Yoritomo manages to quiet the boys. He points to himself.

                                               YORITOMO
                            Yoritomo.

                                                ALGREN
                                      (points to himself)
                            Algren.

                                               YORITOMO
                            All-gren.
Algren nods, and the boys start screaming "All-gren!"

                                              YORITOMO
                                    (points to each in rum)
                            Higen. Toshiie. Taka.

                                                                               50.

                                            ALGREN
                                  (bowing)
                          Higen. Toshiie.
                                  (turns to Taka)
                          Taka.
She meets his eyes for the slightest moment, then looks down and walks away.


INT.              KATSUMOTO'S HOUSE                            NIGHT

Katsumoto is arranging flowers. Algren watches in confusion, as this
powerful lord goes about doing something so feminine and delicate. Finally:

                                           KATSUMOTO
                          The parliament of your country has two houses.
                          Why is that?

                                           ALGREN
                          To keep either one from being too powerful.

                                           KATSUMOTO
                          Does not a people need a powerful ruler to
                          protect them?

                                           ALGREN
                          We believe the opposite.

Katsumoto thinks about this.

                                             ALGREN
                          I have a question. How do you come to speak
                          English?

                                               KATSUMOTO
                          Members of the Council were required to study
............              it. ........Yes, I was a member of the government.
                          I helped restore the Emperor to the throne.

                                            ALGREN
                          So that Japan could have a powerful ruler to
                          protect it.

Katsumoto understands Algren's irony, but doesn't smile.


                                         ALGREN
                          And now you must hate him for what he's done.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                          He is my blood. I serve him with my life.

                                            ALGREN
                          By fighting his army?

Katsumoto looks at A1gren.

                                                                                                             51.

                                              KATSUMOTO
                           I do not fight the emperor. I fight those who
                           seek to influence him, those who betray the soul
                           of my country.

He slowl y draws his long samurai sword, and places it next to the flowers on the table in front of him.

                                              KA TSUMOTO
                           The Emperor gave this blade to my ancestors
                           400 years ago. It has been used only to defend his
                           sacred honor.

Katsumoto hands the sword to Algren. Algren studies it.

                                             KATSMUOTO
                           It takes many years to make a sword. It is a holy
                           Act. A samurai's sword is his soul.

                                             ALGREN
                           This sword is flawed. What is this uneven line
                           near the edge?

Katsumoto smiles at Algren's ignorance.

                                              KATSUMOTO
                           One man is flexible and compromises too much
                           to avoid conflict. Another man is so fierce he
                           wins ever y battle, but so rigid he can never know
                           peace. A man who knows both is the perfect
                           warrior. The lame is true of a blade .. one steel
                           bends, and the other cuts. And where they
                           meet is never perfect Hold the blade up. .

Algren holds the sword, cutting edge up. Katsumoto takes a silk cloth and drops it. It gently billows down -- and
splits evenly on the edge.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           Some believe a blade is thirsty until it tastes the
                           blood of its enemy.

Algren hands the sword back. Suddenly, Katsumoto swings the sword, cleanly splitting the table in two.
Silence.

                                           ALGREN
                           The crew at Winchester can produce one rifle ever y
                           seven minutes.

                                            KA TSUMOTO
                           We gave up firearms two hundred years ago. It
                           takes no courage to kill. A man from half a mile
                           awa y. You must look into the eyes of your enemy
                           to know who you have killed.

                                                                                                       52.
                                             ALGREN
                          I'm not sure an artillery officer would agree.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                          Do you?

                                              ALGREN
                          I think all killing's a filthy business.

                                              KATSUMO
                          TO Taking a man's life is
                          nothing. It is his honor you
                          can never take awa y.

                                           ALGREN
                          In other words you have no respect for human life.

                                              KA TSUMOTO
                                   (fierce) .
                          What do you know of human life? You come here to kill for
                          money Where is your family? Where is your wife, your sons?
                          What is your legacy?

                                             ALGREN
                                   (undaunted)
                          And what is yours? To rebel against the future? I fought the
                          South in our civil war. Their leaders believed they were fighting
                          for "honor" just as you do. And their people died by the thousands!

Katsumoto simply looks at him.

                                           ALGREN
                          And my wife is dead.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                          Mine, too.


They look at each other. Some unexpected recognition has taken place.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                          Tomorrow we will discuss your country's wish for
                          dominance in the..."Far East."

                                             ALGREN
                          ...I look forward to it.


Algren turns to go.


EXT.VILLAGE SQUARE DAY

We see the village swordsmith at work. He has been forging the same long samurai blade for months... Algren
watches him as he works.

                                                                                                               53.
                                            ALGREN (V.O.)
                          March 9. 1877. I have never known such a disciplined
                          people.

EXT. VILLAGE DAY

Algren trains with the other men. He attempts an attack, which is easily brushed aside by Nakao. Algren ends
up in the dirt again.

                                             ALGREN (V.O.)
                          From the moment they wake, they devote themselves
                          to the perfection of whatever they pursue--

EXT. VILLAGEDAY


Algren walking with Katsumoto -- they are deep in conversation.

                                           ALGREN (V.O.)
                          And yet the more time I spend here, the less I understand them.

EXT.               VILLAGE                      DAY
Two women are bowing repeatedly, chattering in smiling, earnest argument.

                                            ALGREN (V.O.)
                          Everyone is polite, every nuance of behavior seems to
                          have a great meaning, and increasingly I am convinced
                          that the lower they bow, the leas they mean it.

EXT.              YORITOMO'S                         HOUSE

Algren, holding the wooden sword in 1870'5 baseball manner, is coaxing Higen to throw the ball at him. The
children laugh as Algren hits it onto the next porch.

Taka watches her sons impassively. It is dear how much they like Algren.

                                           ALGREN (V.O.)
                          And I am sure they regard my wa ys to be as confounding
                          and unfathomable as I find theirs.

AN ICE CRYSTAL ON THE END OF A BRANCH


Starts to drip. SPRING bas begun.

BXT.                 VILLAGE                         DAY

Villagers laugh as they go about the business of life. A man throws a sack of rice to another. Two women hurry
awa y from a farmer who is teasing them.

Algren is once again among the training warriors. He and another man face off, each waiting for the other to
attack with his wooden sword.

                                                                                                                54.
Algren moves first, but his opponent counters, and strikes him easily. They wheel around and engage again,
and again Algren is bested. Furious, he throws himself at his opponent, reverting to classic saber technique.

In a flurry of movement, his opponent manages to deflect the blows and also knock Algren to his knees.
Yoritomo approaches and bows.

                                            YORITOMO
                           A1gren -San. Please forgive. Too many mind.

                                             ALGREN
                           What?

                                           YORITOMO
                                  (pointing as he explains)
                           Mind sword, mind face, mind people watch, too many mind.
                                  (on Algren's confused expression)
                           No mind.

                                             ALGREN
                           No mind?

                                           YORITOMO
                           Hai! No mind. You try.

Algren nods, uncertainly, and picks himself up. Again he faces the opponent, shaking off the tension and trying
to stay calm.

This time the opponent charges first, and Algren manages to parry one blow, before he is again bested.

Yoritomo bows happily and begins yammering in Japanese, clearly taking credit for Algren's progress.

Across the square, Katsumoto watches.


EXT.                     IMPERIAL PALACE GARDEN                                   DAY

The cherry blossoms have emerged, creating a scene of intense col or, beauty,
and serenity. The Emperor sits cross-legged next to a shrine. He is approached by Omura and two other
advisors.                                                                        .

                                             OMURA
                           Your majest y, beg permission to approach.
                                    (the Emperor nods)
                           Your humble servants are most anxious to know if his
                           Majest y has signed the order regarding the railroad progress.

                                               EMPEROR
                                   (after a long moment)
                           I am most impressed at the wa y the blossoms float
                           upon the air, as if held by unseen hands.

                                             OMURA
                           Yes, they represent the highest form of gyoko.
                           About the order, your Majest y.

                                                                                                                 55.
                                              EMPEROR
                            This railroad must go through Yoshino Province?

                                               OMURA
                            It is absolutely necessar y your Highness.

                                                EMPEROR
                            If you sa y so, I shall sign.

EXT.                                VILLAGE                          DAY

Algren walks through the village, past the swordsmith who is now honing the blade, carefully sharpening it.

.EXT.                    CHERRY TREE FOREST                              DAY

Algren makes his way through a stunning cherry forest near the village. The pink and red blossoms are dazzling
and abundant. Other villagers can be seen gathering cherry bl ossoms.

It is a place of otherworldly beaut y.

It is all so beautiful that Algren just stops. Takes it in for a moment. He reaches out and touches a blossom.

                                             KATSUMOTO (O.S.)
                            A perfect blossom is a rare thing...

Algren turns. Katsumoto is kneeling nearby, meditating.

                                             KA TSUMOTO
                            You could spend your life looking for one.
                            And it would not be a wasted life.

                                            ALGREN
                            Were you praying?

                                                KATSUMOTO
                            Just sitting... I do not think I have the word.
                            Satori it means, maybe, awareness.

                                               ALGREN
                            Of what?

                                              KATSUMOTO
                            This moment alone, apart from all others ... You
                            know this?
                                     (Algren shakes his head)
                            I am writing a poem about this time we hive spent.
                            I have only written one line on "His eyes were like my
                            own but seen through a deep and troubled ocean."
                            Can you suggest a second line?

                                             ALGREN
                            I'm not much of a writer.

                                              KA TSUMOTO
                            Is this why you spend so much time with your journal?

                                                                                     56.

                        .                     ALGREN
                             How do you know that?
                                      (no answer)
                             She told you.

Katsumoto appraises Algren.

                                              ALGREN
                             Did you love her husband as your own son?

                                             KA TSUMOTO
                             You have sent men to their deaths, just as I have.

                                                ALGREN
                             The difference is, you feel nothing.

                                              KA TSUMOTO
                             Before you were a soldier, you were a farmer.

                                              ALGREN
                             What does that have to do with anything?

                                               KA TSUMOTO
                             You lived on a farm. Or in a forest of trees.

                                            ALGREN
                             How do you know?

                                              KA TSUMOTO
                             The wa y you look at the cherry blossoms.

                                               ALGREN
                                      (reluctantly)
                             We lived in a place called Connecticut. My...brother
                             and I climbed the maple trees.

                                              KA TSUMOTO
                             Were they beautiful?

                                               ALGREN
                             Yes.


                                              KATSUMOTO
                            And you were sad to see them die in the winter.

A beat. Something flickers in Algren's eyes.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                             You were something before you were a soldier. You
                             were a boy who was sad to see the leaves fall and the
                             trees die.

Katsumoto looks at him deepl y.

                                                                                              57.
                                                KA TSUMOTO
                             Like those trees, we are all dying. The future is
                             an illusion, our plans are an illusion, our fears an illusion.
                             We live life in every breath. Eat, drink, fuck. Now. Every cup
                             of tea. Every word we write... Every blossom we hold.

He smiles sadly.


                                               KA TSUMOTO
                             Every life we take.

A beat. He stands, takes in the beautiful cherry orchard.


                                               KATSUMOTO
                             Life in every breath. That is bushido. The wa y of the
                             samurai.

He goes. Algren stands for a moment deep in thought

INT.                      YORITOMO'S HOUSE                               NIGHT

Algren is asleep. And then we note that the ground is vibrating .. he slides
across his mat .- wakes with a start

An unholy rumbling-

Algren bolts up ... just as a paper wall rips open, the wooden framework to the room splits
and the roof collapses--

An earthquake. Common for this part of Japan.

EXT.                     VILLAGE                            NIGHT

Yoritomo appears. He and Algren crawl out of the house just as the ground lurches
violently-

Part of the house contorts and caves in

Around the village, the wooden frame houses are swa ying and lurching they have some
torque, but not enough

Ujio directs the villagers as they battle a fire-

Taka appears, calling frantically for Toshiie.

Then an even larger seismic tremor suddenly TEARS THROUGH THE
VILLAGE

Houses are ripped apart -- the whole world shifting.

Though the smoke, Algren sees Toshiie cowering under an eave

                                                                                               58.

A heavy ceiling beam breaks loose, threatens to crush Toshiie

Algren dives forward, grabs Toshiie and pulls him out of the wa y... the front
of the house collapses, the beams smashing to the ground..

Taka and Higen race to Algren and Toshiie. The boy is safe.

Taka grabs the child and cradles him. Her look to Algren is fierce, protective,
almost feral -- as if he were the threat instead of the rescuer.

EXT.                       VILLAGE                               DAY

Algren watches the villagers rebuild. Yoritomo and Higen strugg1e with a large
wooden framework.

                                                   ALGREN (V.O.)
                            I am str    uck by these people and their acceptance of Fate
                            in a1l it   s variations. At a time like this, they seem utterly
                            without      sentiment. Even the children have a gravity
                            beyond      their years.

Algren goes to them. Silently begins to help them.


INT.                 YORITOMO'S HOUSE                                    DAYS LATER

Algren works with Yoritomo, binding the wooden framework. Higen prepares
the paper walls nearby. He does this with considerable skill.

Taka is getting water from a rain barrel she observes Algren helping
rebuild her home. Yoritomo is working nearby.
Algren's Japanese is rough but improving:

                                             ALGREN
                                    (in Japanese, subtitles)
                            Would last longer ... if stone.

                                             YORITOMO
                                   (subtitles)
                            No. House fall. House go back easy with wood.

Algren shakes his head. Taka appears with cups of water. Algren looks at her
For the first rime, she holds his gaze.


EXT.                  YORITOMO'S HOUSE                               EVENING

Torches illuminate a small stage in the center of the village square. Several
samurai perform a ritualistic Noh drama. (A form which, by the wa y, the
samurai invented.) Others play flutes and large steel drums.

                                               ALGREN (V.O.)
                            And yet I have never seen a people with more capacity
                            for the joy found in the simplest things of life.

                                                                                                59.

Katsumoto himself plays the lead role. An enthusiastic actor, he plays to the children in
the audience. They are delighted with his broad theatrics.

INT. YORITOMO'S HOUSE

Taka is carrying in a huge lack of rice. Algren goes to help her.

                                               TAKA
                                     (subtitles)
                             No, please.

                                                    ALGREN
                                        (insistent)
                            Hai.
He carries the rice for her into the pantry area.

                                              TAKA
                                    (subtitles)
                            Japanese men do not help with this.

                                                  ALGREN
                                        (subtitles)
                            I know.

She looks at him, a little surprised.

                                               ALGREN
                                     (subtitles)
                            I am not Japanese.

In spite of herself, she smiles a little. There is an awkward moment.


                                                ALGREN
                                      (subtitles)
                            1... didn't know he was your husband.

                                              TAKA
                                    (struck; subtitles)
                            He did his duty. You did your duty.

                                              ALGREN
                                    (subtitles)
                            And you do yours.

                                                    TAKA
                                        (softl y)
                            Hai.

They look at each other for a long moment. She starts to move, but he stops
her. They are close enough to smell each other's hair, to feel the warmth of
the other's breath. She looks up at him, pleading with her eyes not to take this any further.

                                                                                                  60.

He lets her go.

EXT.                 VILLAGE                   DAY

Algren stands across from Ujio, ready again for the ken-jutso.

They stand frozen for a long time, hands on the hilts of their wooden swords.
Other samurai watch.

Algren and Ujio stare at each other.

But there is something different about Algren's expression. Not as much
fury and competition, more a sense of balance and alertness. He studies Ujio's eyes, his hands,
the folds of his kimono, the attitude of his body.

We watch A1gren closel y.

Gradually all SOUND drains away. We hear only Algren's steady breathing. He is
aware of everything. A bird in a tree. A woman grinding rice. A plum about to fall.
A gently swa ying battle flag,

Slow-motion as:

Algren attacks -- no fury, just control-- Ujio tries to deflect the blow, Algren
anticipates - he swings his sword elegantly - -Ujio blocks it -- Algren counters --

Algren presses forward, his sword slashing masterfully, forcing Ujio back
Ujio counters with complex moves as he retreats --Algren keeps moving
forward, calm -- finally Ujio's sword is swept aside in one clean
movement. Algren ends with the edge of his wooden sword It Ujio's throat.

The other samurai watch. Amazed.

Algren twirls his sword in a fancy cavalry "fl ourish." The pride he has alwa ys taken in his
swordsmanship has been restored. He bows to Uji o.

Ujio nods his head, slightly, in respect


The other samurai, led by the hearty Nakao, congratulate Algren.

EXT. MEADOW                            DAY

Algren carries water from the river through a riot of spring wild-flowers. Something
makes him stop, and see the sunlit clouds in the deep blue sky, the colors around him, hear the
buzzing of the bees, feel the kill of the air.

A sudden flash of memory

His beautiful wife, in green field not unlike this one, laughing, tossing her hair, falling
back into the long grass.

Back to Algren

                                                                                                  61.

The force of the memory causes him to link to the ground.

Another flash of memory, longer this time:

His wi fe leans over and kisses his mouth, and his cheek, and his forehead. He holds
her al tightly as be can.

Back to Algren

As tears begin to course down his face, and he sinks down into the flowers and the grass,
looking up into the impossibl y beautiful sky. He gives in to the sobs wracking his body.

EXT.          VILLAGE                              DAY

As Algren returns with the water, he sees Katsumoto approaching with Ujio and several warriors.

                                           KATSUMOTO
                           The Emperor has requested my presence.
                           We leave tomorrow. You will be released in Tokyo.

He goes. Algren stands, not sure how to react.

INT.             YORITOMO'S HOUSE                         NIGHT

Algren writes on parchment by the light of an oil lamp.

                                             ALGREN (V.O.)
                           April 13, 1877. Tomorrow we return to
                           civilization. As eager as I am to be among my
                           own kind, I confess to a curious reluctance.

EXT.         KATDUMOTO'S VILLAGE                     DAWN

Algren stands overlooking the village as the sun rises over the misty peaks.

                                           ALGREN (V.O.)
                           These months have marked me, and I don't fully
                           know yet wh y.

EXT.                 YORITOMO'S HOUSE                     DAY

Algren prepares to mount up. Yoritomo says goodbye to his family.

                                              ALGREN (V.O.)
                           I do know it is here that I have known my first
                           untroubled sleep in many years.

Taka comes to Algren, bows her head.

                                             TAKA
                                   (subtitles)
                           You are alwa ys welcome in our home.

                                             ALGREN
                           Domo Arrigato.

He glances at the unfinished house.

                                                                                        62.
                                              ALGREN
                                   (subtitles)
                           ...You will finish it soon.

                                                TAKA
                                      (subtitles)
                           If that is my destiny.

She bows her head again. Toshiie hands him a scroll: it is a picture of the
Family. Algren is included. Japanese characters list all their names.

Toshiie bows. Algren bows and tucks the scroll into his coat.

Algren and Yoritomo move out with Katsumoto, Ujio, Nakao and his bodyguard of several
dozen Samurai.

The villagers bow and honor the warrior as they pass.


EXT.                    MOUNTAINOUS LANDSCAPE                             DAY


Algren trots alongside Katsumoto.

                                             ALGREN
                           ... The Emperor sends a message for you to return
                           to Tokyo, and you go?

                                             KATSUMOTO
                           Yes.

                                            ALGREN
                           Even though you're in rebellion against him.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                           Against the Emperor? Never. I serve him. As
                           I have alwa ys done.    .

                                             ALGREN
                           I don't understand.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           Our Emperor is young, and there are things I must
                           sa y to him.

                                             ALGREN
                           But ever yone around him wants you dead.

                                           KA TSUMOTO
                           And if the Emperor desires, I will take my own life at his
                           command.

He spurs his horse and rides on. A1gren watches him.

                                                                                                       63.
EXT.         MOUNTAIN VALLEY                               SUNSET

They approach a large inn.

A boy working in the fields see Katsumoto approaching. He doesn't believe
it -- the Great Katsumoto. He drops his hoe and races awa y, calling out.

                                              KATSUMOTO
                             We will stop here for the night.

EXT.                      MOUNTAIN VALLEY                              SUNSET

Samurai guards have been posted around the perimeter.


INT.         KATSUMOTO'S RQOM                              NIGHT

Algren is escorted in. Katsumoto kneels at a table. Preparing the traditional Japanese tea ceremony.

                                                KATSUMOTO
                             Sit, Captain.

Algren sits. By now he has learned how to sit on the ground. Katsumoto begins the exacting, delicate and
precise tea ceremony.

                                              KATSUMOTO
                             Do you drink tea?

                                                  ALGREN
                             I've had little else for some time...

Katsumoto continues with the tea ceremony.

                                            ALGREN
                             How's your poem coming?

                                              KATSUMOTO
                             I am having trouble. The truth is I am not a very
                             good poet.
                                     (Algren smiles)
                             Do you know wh y you were sent here? To
                             Yoshino.

                                                ALGREN
                             To protect the railroad.

                .                              KATSUMOTO
                             Why is the railroad here?

                                             ALGREN
                             So Tokyo can control the whole country.

                                                                                                       64.
                                           KATSUMOTO
                           You have seen my province. All mountains.
                           Far from Tokyo. Yet the rail line must come
                           here?

Katsumoto tosses a tiny bit of coal on the simmering brazier on the table. Algren watches carefully.

                                           ALGREN
                           You have something they want

                                           KATSUMOTO
                           What do they want in my mountains?

                                                ALGREN
                           Minerals ... Gold.

                                                KA TSUMOTO
                                    (smiles)
                           There is no gold in Japan.

Katsumoto gently blows on the coal brazier. The coal flares a bit.

                                                ALGREN
                           Coal?
                                    (Katsumoto looks at him)
                           For steamships.

                                          KA TSUMOTO
                           And why would steamships be so important?

                                                ALGREN
                           ...China.

Katsumoto looks up at him. Impressed.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           Japan has nothing. China has ever ything.

                                              ALGREN
                           Mine the coal to create a way station for the trip to
                           China ... Freeze the Europeans out and Japan and
                           America have a monopol y on the China trade.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           Add to this the Omura Zaibatsu. You know the
                           Zaibatus?

                                           ALGREN
                           The wealthy families.

                                                                                                       65.


                                              KATSUMOTO
                           As patron of the railroad, Omura owns all land within
                            four hundred feet of ever y new rail line. As my country
                           grows, so will his wealth.
                                    (looks at him)
                           This is why you are fighting.

Katsumoto completes the tea ceremony. He pours a cup for Algren. Bows his head and offers it to him.

                                              ALGREN
                           And you will tell the emperor to stop them?

                                              KATSUMOTO
                           I do not tell the emperor what to do.

                                           ALGREN
                           Then what do you hope to accomplish?

Katsumoto looks at Algren, the slightest gleam in his eye.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                           Will you return to America?

Algren watches him -- why didn't Katsumoto answer?

                                              ALGREN
                           ...I have a job here.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           You should return to your home.

                                             ALGREN
                           Why?

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           Because I do not wish you to be m y enemy again.

Katsumoto returns to his poem, he does not look up.

                                           KATSUMOTO
                           Go home Captain ... Anshinritsumai. I wish you peace.

Algren waits but Katsumoto just continues to work on his poem.

EXT.                      AROUND THE INN                                 NIGHT

The samurai guards are alert, their senses heightened to almost superhuman proportions.

But there is another way. Another way of learning combat. A wa y without the
beaut y, the philosophy and the moral code.

They are almost imperceptible at first... their head-to-toe black clothes a perfect
camouflage... their silence and stealth are otherworldly.

                                                                                                     66.

They were then known as Shinobi, masters of stealth and spying.

We know them as Ninjas.

They float across the ground ... creeping an inch ever y hour... complete
physica1 control. One black-gloved finger moves. Then the next...

They crawl and then wait


Poised on their fingertips and toes.

There is no sound as they strike.

The samurai guards are garroted in an instant. Other Ninjas catch the
samurai's weapons as they fall. No sound disturbs the peaceful night.

EXT.                  INN -- FRONT DOORWAY                                  NIGHT

Silence.

Two samurai guards are in position.

One of them glances up at the stars.

A Ninja throwing star instantly slices into his jugular-- blood sprays -- the other
guard turns ­ a series of Ninja slice into him...

EXT.                    INN--WALLS                                  NIGHT

Silence.

The Ninjas use mew claws to crawl up the walls like spiders.

EXT.               INN ­ ROOF                               NIGHT

Silence.

A samurai guard stands at the edge of the roof. A Ninja silently moves
toward him. Stops. Ten feet awa y.

He pulls out a shuriken -- a small needle-shaped projectile, dips it into a sack of
poison. Places it carefully into the palm of his hand. And with the flick of his
wrist--

The needle flies -- stabbing into the samurai -- he crumples.

Other Ninjas immediately pour over the edge of the roof -- catching the samurai before he falls...

INT.                          INN -- KATSUMOTO'S ROOM                         NIGHT

Silence.

                                                                                                        67.
Katsumoto cannot sleep. He stares out the window at a nightingale.


INT.                       INN--UJIO'S ROOM                   NIGHT

Silence.

Ujio sits in his room. He is unblinking. Alert. Swords at the ready.

INT.                           INN ­ ALGREN'S ROOM                       NIGHT

Silence.
Algren cannot sleep either. He sits leaning against a wall. Thinking.

INT.                       INN -- MAIN HALL                     NIGHT

Silence.

Yoritomo drinks tea with Nakao, the huge martial arts master.


INT.                         OUTSIDE KATSUMOTO'S ROOM                         NIGHT

A guard stands sentinel. Above his head, unbeknownst to him, two Ninjas descend on ropes.
One of them swings a long chain - to which I barbed-knife is attached.

As it lodges in the guard's chest, the second Ninja swings down just in time to catch the dead guard,
silently, before his body hits the ground.

INT.                          INN -- KATSUMQTO'S ROOM                      NIGHT

Silence.

Katsumoto lies in bed listening to the night bird. It stops singing. Katsumoto smiles sadly. He
decides to give up on sleep, leans forward to rise.

This act saves his life.


For when the Ninjas come, they come all at once--

A Ninja suddenly comes TEARING STRAIGHT THROUGH THE PAPER WALL, his sword
slashing down .- just missing Katsumoto.

Katsumoto calls out an alarm, diving and rolling across the floor for his sword. He instantly
kills one Ninja using his steel-tipped "war fan" to slash his attackers throat. Another smashes
in through the window.

INT.                  INN -- MAIN H ALL                      NIGHT

Ninjas EXPLODE into the main hall. Samurai who come out of their rooms are cut down by a
variety of weapons -- one takes a throwing star in the face, others are felled by the traditional
ninja-to, short swords ideal for fighting in confined spaces, chain-knives, nun-chaka and others.

                                                                                                         68.
More Ninjas drop from the rafters on ropes.


INT.                          INN -- ALGREN'S ROOM                              NIGHT

A Ninja SMASHES through the paper wall -- Algren grabs the nearest object, a low tea table.
and swings it at his head. The Ninja dodges the blow and slices at Algren with short-sword.

Algren barely avoids the blow by ducking behind a post as the sword LODGES
deep in the wood. Algren flings himself, bodily, at his attacker.

INT.                      INN-- MAIN HALL                           NIGHT

Ninja throwing stars spin across the room, killing a samurai.

Yoritomo emerges from his room, readying his bow, but the dead samurai falls back
blocking his wa y. From behind the rice wall, Yoritomo lets fly an arrow without even
looking.

It passes THROUGH the wall, killing the Ninja on the opposite balcony.


INT.                         INN-- FIRST FLOOR                    NIGHT

Ujio screams a war cry and begins to battle his way up the stairs. With breathtaking moves, he slashes
hands and limbs, forcing the Ninja back.

Nakao fights his wa y up beside him, desperately trying to reach Katsumoto's room. Using
only his bare hands he catches a Ninja's wrist and hurls him over the railing.

INT.                         INN -- ALGREN'S ROOM                      NIGHT

Algren and the Ninja are in a death struggle, kneeing, gouging, butting. They awkwardly smash
through a paper wall into the next room.

INT.                     INN -- KATSUMOTO'S ROOM                      NIGHT

Katsumoto wields his long sword in one hand and his short sword in the other. It is the first time
we have seen him in action and his movements are both beautiful and deadly.

But more Ninjas are pouring in through the window, threatening to overwhelm him.

INT.                            INN -- ALGREN'S ROOM                    NIGHT

Rolling on the ground, Algren manages to grab a chopstick and STAB his adversary through the eye.
He picks up the fallen short sword and steps out into the hall.

ARROWS whiz past, thudding into the wall beside his head.

INT.                     INN-- KATSUMOTO'S ROOM                          NIGHT

Katsumoto, breathing heavily, his kimono shredded and bloody, is fending off the Ninjas' increasingly
savage attacks as Algren enters.

Algren SCREAMS, distracting them just long enough for Katsumoto to take advantage and kill one.

                                                                                                               69.
Then, just as a Ninja it about to kill Algren, Katsumoto FLINGS his short sword ... it pin-wheels across the
room, hitting Algren's attacker in the chest.

Without missing a beat, Algren pulls the short sword from the dying Ninja's chest and uses it to stab
another Ninja who, thinking Algren defenseless, has launched an attack.

INT.                         INN -- MAIN HALL                       NIGHT

Ujio and Nakao are back to back, a perfect fighting machine as they fight their wa y to
Katsumoto's rescue. They battle Ninjas wielding lethal kusarigamas, the Ninjas swing chains,
the attached blades slice the air--Nakao catches the chains and flinging the Ninja
over the balcony.

INT.               YORITOMO'S ROOM                           NIGHT

Yoritomo is pinned down. Darts and throwing stars shred the rice paper wall above him. He
picks off another Ninja before changing his position.

INT.                   INN-- KATSUMOTO'S ROOM                          NIGHT

The blazing sword battle continues.

Algren throws a beautiful painted standing-screen in front of an attacking Ninja,
momentarily confusing him. Then he stabs THROUGH THE SCREEN -as a blood-
stain SPREADS across the pastoral painting.

But another Ninja catches Algren off-guard and slices at him with his short sword. As
Algren lifts his sword to parry the blow, HIS LITILE FINGER IS CHOPPED OFF.

He drops the sword, momentarily defenseless.

Across the hallway

Yoritomo has been watching the shadowpla y on the rice-paper walls.
Algren's attacker raises his blade to deliver the death blow.

In Katsumoto's room

Algren flinches involuntarily beneath the raised blade. Suddenly the Ninja JACKKNIFES
as if punched by an unseen hand. As he spins, dead, to the ground, we SEE an ARROW
lodged bet ween his shoulder blades. Yoritomo has FIRED blindly, through the wall ­
killing Algren's attacker.

Nearby, a Ninja hurls a throwing star at Katsumoto. With blind instinct Katsumoto
turns and takes the blade in the meat of his arm.

Algren, meanwhile, has ripped the sleeve of his kimono into a tourniquet for his maimed hand.
He uses the rest of the fabric TO TIE HIS HAND TO HIS SWORD before launching himself
back into the fray -- slicing an attacker just as he is about to impale Katsumoto.

Together, he and Katsumoto force the last two Ninjas through a paper wall to the next room.
They fight all the wa y through that room and BLAST through another paper wall to the next.

                                                                                                    70.
INT.                  INN ­ STAIRWAY                           NIGHT

The battle continues unabated on the stairs -- the Ninjas spring for position with
incredible grace --perching and fighting on banisters, leaping from one level to the next.


It is a mayhem of flashing swords and flailing limbs and flyi ng arrows and spinning Ninja stars.

Sprays of blood splatter against the white rice paper walls.

Some of the fighting is less than elegant. Men bite and wrestle and gouge to
survive in close quarters.

All of them arc bloody and sweat y and dirty and tired, heaving for breath, their skin flayed
open, their kimonos ripped, their hands and arms and faces blood-stained.

But more samurai reinforcements follow Ujio up the stairs: Together with Yoritomo
and Nakao, they have begun to gain the upper hand.

Ujio flings both his swords through the air -- killing two Ninjas -- and dives to
fight others - his martial arts skills are dazzling.

Algren and Katsumoto are fighting sidc by side

And we cut to --

EXT.                INN                             NIGHT

Outside of the inn, we slowl y pull away...

The sounds of the battle gradually fade...


Soon it is nothing more than a lovel y rustic inn nestled in the mountains.

INT.                          INN ­ STAIRWAY                        NIGHT

Later. The battle is over.

Ninja and samurai corpses litter the inn.

We slowl y move up the long stairwa y from the bottom...

Yoritomo pulls a Ninja star from Nakao's_shou1der. Then one from his own.

We move up another level, past more bodies...

Ujio moves through the Ninjas. Making sure they are dead. Before sheathing
his sword, he angrily FLICKS it at the rice paper wall, spattering it with the bloody spray.

Katsumoto wipes his sword on a nearby corpse, replaces it in its sheath. He sits beside
Algren on a stair. Both men are exhausted. Bloodied. Alive.

A long beat as we watch the two warriors.

Slow fade to...

                                                                                        71.

EXT.                TOKYO -- IMPERIAL PALACE                     DAY

Algren, Katsumoto and the others are nearing the palace. Algren slows to a
stop -- his path is toward the city. Katsumoto stops, looks at him, then does
something absolutel y extraordinary.


He kneels and bows before Algren. Quickly touching his head to the dirt.


Then he rises, turns and walks toward the palace.


Algren stands, stunned.

EXT.                  PARADE GROUND                              DAY

Algren walks onto the parade ground. The change he sees could not be more remarkable.
Thousands of new Japanese troops are drilling with new bolt-action Mausers. They
are precise, exact and frighteningly mechanistic, their uniforms new and crisp.

New German advisors are barking commands. Colonel Bagley sees him.

                                          BAGLEY
                           Algren? My God, you never cease to astonish.

Bagley runs over, hand extended, but Algren turns to look at the troops.

                                          ALGREN
                           They have new weapons.

                                              BAGLEY
                           The Kaiser was only too happy to help. Along
                           with his friends at Mauser and Krupp. Thank God we
                           Americans still have a few teeth in our head.

And they come to the "teeth." Howitzer cannons. A row of them. Artillery
officers in US Army uniforms arc instructing Japanese offi cers.

                                             BAGLEY
                           The ambassador and I have spent eight months
                           kissing Omura's ass so he'll sign the damn trade
                           pact with us. You spent all this time living with
                           those savages?
                                    (A1gren looks at him)
                           He's going to want to talk to you...

                                              ALGREN
                           I need a bath.

                                           BAGLEY
                           And your back pay, I imagine.

Algren starts walking away.

                                                                                                    72.

                                             BAGLEY
                           They got their flag. ...See?

And we see it... snapping on I flagpole high above the parade ground.


It is immediately familiar. A red circle on a white field. The Rising Sun.

The Howitzers fire in sequence. Thundering blasts that shake the heavens.


EXT,               ROYAL TEMPLE                               DAY


Omura stands above Emperor Meiji respectful but persistent.

The Emperor is kneeling, tending to his iris garden. It is one of the wonders of the Palace: a
sea of white, pink, blue, and purple blossoms.

Retainers and servants stand at a distance. One holds a standard with the Imperial seal: a yellow
chrysanthemum.

Omura sees Katsumoto making his way toward them. He talks a bit more quickly to the Emperor.

Katsumoto begins to prostrate himself before the Emperor, the usual sign of extreme
respect -- but the Emperor stops him:

                                             EMPEROR
                                   (subtitles)
                           No, Mori-san. We arc "civilized" now.

Katsumoto stops prostrating himself. The Emperor offers his hand.

                                              KATSUMOTO
                                    (subtitles)
                           I cannot touch the Sacred One.

                                             EMPEROR
                                   (subtitles)
                           You can.

It is a difficult moment for Katsumoto. He simply cannot do It.

                                             OMURA
                                   (subtitles)
                           Did you have a pleasant journey, Minister Katsumoto?

                                              KATSUMOTO
                                    (subtitles)
                           It was uneventful.

Omura appreciates Katsumoto's droll response. He assumes that Katsumoto is aware of
his part in the assassination attempt.

                                                                                          73.

                                              EMPEROR
                                    (subtitles)
                         If it is not a great imposition. I desire a moment alone with
                         Minister Katsumoto. Omura-San.

                                           OMURA

                                   (subtitles)
                         Enlightened One, perhaps I can be of service in a conversation
                         of state.

                                            EMPEROR
                                  (subtitles)
                         So kind of you, but I fear my old teacher wishes to upbraid
                         me in private for neglecting my studies.

Omura bows his head quickly and goes.


Silence. The Emperor gazes at Katsumoto. Then:

                                           EMPEROR
                                 (subtitles)
                         You rise against me, my teacher.

                                           KATSUMOTO
                                 (subtitles)
                         No, Highness, I rise against your enemies.

                                           EMPEROR
                                 (subtitles)
                         They are my teacher, my advisers, like you.

                                           KATSUMOTO
                                 (subtitles)
                         They advise in their own interest.

                                             EMPEROR
                                   (subtitles)
                         The world is changing, Mori -- you have not seen what
                         goes on beyond our borders, the inventions, the science.
                          I need men who can look outward, or soon we will be
                         left behind, and defenseless.

                                           KATSUM OTO
                                 (subtitles)
                         I am sworn to defend you even to my last breath.

                                            EMPEROR
                                   (subtit1es)
                         The samurai live in the past. You cannot defend against
                         a future you don't understand.

                                                                                         74.
                                            KATSUMOTO
                                  (subtitles)
                         If I am no use, then I will happily end my life,

                                            EMPEROR
                                  (subtitles)
                         No, Mori. It is my wish that you rejoin the Council of State.
                         I need your voice.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                                   (subtitles)
                         It is your voice that needs to be heard, Highness. You
                         are a living God, you can do what ever you
                         think is right.

The young emperor is silent a moment.

                                             EMPEROR
                                   (subtitles)
                         I am a living God only as long as I do what they
                         think is right.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                                  (subtitle)
                         Your Highness, may I beg forgiveness for saying
                         what a teacher must, that such a statement is pathetic
                         drivel not worthy of an ignorant stable boy, let alone
                         a young man I know to have some modest intelligence.

The emperor laughs warmly, almost happy to be scolded as he once was.

                                              EMPEROR
                                   (subtitles)
                         Is it possible a living God can be too afraid to make
                         his voice heard?
                                   (Katsumoto's look is not unkind)
                         Tell me what to do, Mori-San?

                                           KATSUMOTO
                                 (subtitles)
                         You are emperor, my Lord, not me. You must find
                         the wisdom for all of us.

EXT.                YOKOHAMA WHARF                             DAY

A series of warehouses, beyond which we see warships in the harbor. A1gren walks
with Bagley and two other OFFICERS.

INT.                      WAREHOUSE                            DAY


The cavernous warehouse piled high with huge crates.

                                                                                             75.
                                                BAGLEY
                             As soon as they sign the agreement, they're obligated
                             to buy the entire weapons package, from Colt revol vers
                             to Ha1liwell twelve-pounders. Plus this particular item
                             you might recognize.

A few stevedores tear open one of the crates. Algren hides his astonishment:
A Gatling Gun is revealed.

                                              BAGLEY
                             They've been calibrated to fire 200 rounds a minute,
                             The new copper cartridges cut down on jamming.

Algren closes his eyes, trying to keep his memories at bay.

EXT.                           TOKYO STREETS                          DAY

Algren fights the crowds with Colonel Bagley And Ambassador Swanbeck..

                                             ALGREN (V.O.)
                             May 15, 1877. The city I return to is immeasurabl y
                             changed

New construction ever ywhere. Telegraph wires strung next to an ancient
temple. A modern European hotel is going up, dwarfing the traditional Japanese
buildings. Huge billboards advertising Western goods. A new invention, the rickshaw,
has replaced many of the palanquins.

                                             ALGREN (V.O.)
                             As though Tokyo were determined to become
                             another New York or Chicago .- all in one
                             headlong rush.

Spider's web of telegraph cables spread from a tall new brick building.
It is like a New York office building stabbing into the heart of old
Japan.

The familiar Omura character is emblazoned on the side.

.INT.             OFFICES OF THE OMURA ZAIBATSU                                        DAY

Aside from the occasional bit of Japanese decor, this could be a buzzing Wall Street firm.

Telegraph operators click away. Accountants use adding machines. Secretaries
use pneumatic tubes to send documents back and forth. Engineers plot out
railway lines. All are dressed in Western clothes.

Algren, Colonel Bagley, and Ambassador Swanbeck enter.

                                               AMBASSADOR SWANBECK
                                      (to Algren)
                             If he asks, you can talk about ordnance and tactics.
                             But remember, this has to do with a lot more than
                             just weapons.

                                                                                                        76.

An anteroom holds waiting delegations from the various European powers.
A babel of language. ... French ...Dutch ...Russian ...German.

A pretty American secretary looks up from her desk.

                                         SECRETARY
                           Ambassador Swanbeck, if you'll follow me.

Some of the delegates arc craning forward, watching Algren and the others hungrily
as they head into the final office.

INT.             OMURA'S OFFICE                            DAY

Omura stands like an industrial titan before large picture windows offering a dramatic view of Tokyo.
The only decoration in the room is an enormous Caravaggio.

                                             OMURA
                           Please, sit down, gentlemen.

Omura removes a gold cigarette case and lights up. Cigarettes are the newest Western fad
Sweeping Japan.

                                               OMURA
                                     (re: cigarette case)
                           A gift from Czar Alexander... Captain Algren,. it seems
                           you have endured your captivity with little ill-effect.

                                             ALGREN
                           Yes, sir.

                                             OMURA
                           He's an extraordinary man, isn't he?

                                             ALGREN
                           He is samurai.

Omura gazes at him. Slowl y takes I puff from his cigarette.

                                             AMBASSADOR SWANBECK
                           Mr. Omura, my people have been drawing up the documents
                           we discussed. I have a draft--

                                             OMURA
                           We're not quite ready to announce the treaty, Ambassador.

                                             AMBASSADOR SWANBECK
                           Excuse me?

                                              OMURA
                           The Emperor is...sentimental. Katsumoto was his old mentor--
                           he is not eager to offend him. It will take I few more days.

                                                                                      77.
                                         AMBASSJ\DOR SW ANBECK
                         How many da ys is " a few?"

                                           OMURA
                         I assure you the Samurai will not stand in the
                         wa y of our agreement. You are prepared to make deliver y?

                                        AMBASSADOR SWANBECK
                         Soon as your emperor signs on the dotted line.

                                           OMURA
                         Captain Algren you are the expert. Will this array of
                         ordnance be sufficient?

                                         ALGREN
                         Depends on what you're trying to accomplish.

                                          OMURA
                         I want my country to take its place as a modern power.

                                           ALGREN
                         Then they will set you well on your way.

                                           OMURA
                         I am pleased.



                                          AMDASSADOR SW ANBECK
                         Mr. Omura, you assured us you had the influence
                         with your emperor to make this deal come to
                         pass. With all due respect perhaps there is someone
                         else we should be speaking to.

                                           OMURA
                         With all due respect, Ambassador, perhaps there is
                         someone else we should be speaking to, for instance the
                         French. Or the English. Or any of the legations waiting
                         in the next room.

Ambassador Swan beck stands swallowing his rage.

                                          AMBASSADOR SWANBECK
                         Yes, we1l, we look forward to hearing from you.

                                          OMURA
                         Good afternoon, gentlemen.

They start to go.

                                          OMURA
                         Captain Algren, perhaps you can stay a moment
                         And tell me of your experiences in our rebellious
                         provinces.

Bagley looks at Algren. Do as he asks. He leaves A1gren alone with Omura.

                                                                                       78.

                                            OMURA
                          Cigarette?

                                            ALGREN
                          Thank you.


Omura lights his cigarette. A moment as he takes Algren's measure.

                                             OMURA
                          You fought bravely on behalf of our army--
                          against the rebel Katsumoto.

Algren says nothing.                            .

                                           OMURA
                          And yet you helped save his life when attacked
                          by the Ninja.

                                         ALGREN
                          My role was much less significant than you may have heard.

                                           OMURA
                          Tell me about your role in Katsumoto's plans.

                                            ALGREN
                          I have none.

                                         OMURA
                          And your sympathies?

                                            ALGREN
                          Again, I have none.


                                           OMURA
                          I know you have little sympathy for Colonel Bagley.

                                           ALGREN
                          He is.... unsympathetic.

Omura smiles.

                                            OMURA
                          I thought it was we who are inscrutable.

Now it is Algren who smiles.

                                           OMURA
                          You have gained important knowledge of Katsumoto's
                          province, his army, and his rebellion. This is extremely
                          valuable to me.

He watches Algren to see how this lands.

                                                                                           79.

                                            OMURA
                           You also possess significant knowledge of m y army, my
                           weaponry, and my plans. This is extremely va1uable to
                           Katsumoto.

                                             ALGREN
                           Again, you flatter me.

                                               OMURA
                           No. I am a businessman. I recognize what is valuable.
                           And I buy it.
                                     (looks at him)
                           In this case, I value your loyalt y.

Algren considers the implications of what Omura is saying.

                                             ALGREN
                           I didn't know loyalt y was something that could be sold.

                                             OMURA
                           Then perhaps you will give it, as a token of future
                           friendship - for which, as a friend, I would be in your debt.

                                             ALGREN
                                   (stands)
                           Then I will consider it.

                                             OMURA
                           And I will be grateful.

INT.                    SHIPPING OFFICE                      DAY


Algren is in a shipping office. A clerk consults his schedule of departure.

                                              CLERK
                           All righteee, the ANDREW JACKSON leaves tomorrow ­
                           if you want a steamship you'll have to wait six weeks.
                                    (Algren is silent)
                           Gets ya to Frisco by the 28th. 14 dollars for a
                           private cabin, 8 for a shared or 3 for a lower berth.
                           What can I put you down for?

Algren is silent, concentrating on a calendar hanging behind the clerk. It
features a beautiful Hiroshigi watercolor of mountains.

                                              CLERK
                           Sir..?

                                              ALGREN
                                    (after a moment)
                           Private cabin.

                                                                                                  80.
EXT.                   TOKYO ­ STREET                             DAY


Graham walks with Algren.

                                             GRAHAM
                            Leave? Wh y would you leave now? No white
                            man has ever been in your position. Do you
                            have any idea what it will mean to have Omura
                            as your friend? You want land, you want women,
                            you want boys?

Algren starts to walk faster, but Graham Stops him.

                                                GRAHAM
                            Nathan. I wanted to leave, too. For three years.
                            You must believe me there is a majest y about
                            these people -- can you imagine what your own
                            country would be if it had half the drive and the
                            discipline and the belief and the bravery of these
                            ridiculous little people?

Then raised voices from across the street stop them.

They see Yoritomo surrounded by four Imperial Army soldiers. The soldiers
are rough and imperious, drunk with power. They carry gleaming rifle..

The soldiers bark orders. Yoritomo stands proudly, responding calmly.

                                               ALGREN

                            Whit is this?

                                              GRAHAM
                            My God, it's the edicts...

                                               ALGREN
                            What edicts?

Algren arrives as the situation is clearly growing volatile - the soldiers are
pointing to Yoritomo's head, screaming


Algren steps toward the soldiers--

                                               ALGREN
                            That's enough--

One of the soldiers SCREAMS at him -- raises his rifle -- all the soldiers raise their rifles ­
Yoritomo reaches for his sword -- Algren tries to push through -

                                                                                              81.
                                           ALGREN
                                 (subtitles)
                           YORITOMO, WAIT!

One of the soldiers smacks Algren in the chin with a rifle butt. Algren reels,
and by the time he stands straight again, four others are pointing their
ba yonets at his face.

Graham takes hold of Algren's arm.

                                              GRAHAM
                           Don't be stupid.

Algren makes eye contact with Yoritomo, who -- in deference to his friend --
puts his sword away.

The Japanese soldiers continue to scream at Yoritomo. They force him to his knees.
Rifles pressed to his head.

Yoritomo bows his bead, speaking quietly, as if praying.

Algren witches in horror all one of the soldiers removes his bayonet -- another grab.
Yoritomo's hair, jerks his head back and begins hacking off Yoritomo's traditional top-knot
of hair. Brutally. Blood.

Yoritomo remains kneeling, head down, blood flowing down his face.

The soldiers laugh and move off.

Algren kneels by Yoritomo. Yoritomo looks up at him. There are tears in
his eyes.

EXT.                  KATSUMOTO'S HOUSE                                    DUSK

Katsumoto's house on the outskirts of Tokyo is spacious and
harmonious. Utterly Japanese. Samurai guards in full regalia, stand
menacingly outside.

INT.                   KATSUMOTO'S HOUSE                                   DUSK

Ujio kneels with Yoritomo, dressing the wounds on his head.

Graham sits across the room talking quietly to the mammoth Nakao, taking
notes in a small notebook. Nakao has been brutally shorn of his top knot
as well. His shame is apparent.

INT.                     KATSUMOTO'S CHAMBER                          DUSK

Servants he1p dress Katsumoto in his exacting samurai wardrobe as Algren is ushered in.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                           Captain, I had not thought to see you again.

                                                                                      82.
                                             ALGREN
                          I'm leaving tomorrow. But before I go I need to
                          tell you what's going on here.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                          You mean the Gatling Guns and the howitzers,
                          is that how you sa y it?

                                             ALGREN
                          They're about to close a trade agreement that
                          will bring this country more weapons than
                          you can imagine.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                          Yes, if the emperor agrees - but Omura knows
                          the Emperor must be convinced there is cause to
                          need those weapons before be will sign.

                                           ALGREN
                                  (realizing)
                          And you are to be the cause...

                                              KATSUMOTO
                          Elegant, isn't it? Omura passes laws sure to cause
                          a samurai revolt, creating a need for the weapons.
                          The Emperor sees that the weapons are needed
                          so he agrees to the entire treaty, giving your
                          country what it wants and the Omura Zaibatsu
                          what it wants. And my country is sold to yours.

As Katsumoto dresses, Algren notes that Katsumoto's body it at battleground
of old scars, so like his own.

                                            KA TSUMOTO
                          Today the Council passed two edicts. The first called for
                          the elimination of our traditional topknots.

                                             ALGREN
                          I know.

                                          KATSUMOTO
                          The second banned the wearing of sword.

Algren stops. He knows what swords mean to the samurai.


                                            KATSUMOTO
                                  (re: his swords)
                          Hand them to me, will you?

Algren picks up Katsumoto's two swords. Looks at him deeply.

                                             ALGREN
                          If you do this, they will kill you.

                                                                                                         83.
                                                KA TSUMOTO
                           I am hard to kill.

                                           ALGREN
                           You don't know what their weapons can do. All
                           your men butchered ... Just for pride.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                           Not for pride. For the emperor.

                                            ALGREN
                           But the emperor is the one signing the agreement.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           He has not signed it yet.

He holds out Katsumoto's two samurai swords.

                                                 ALGREN
                           Is it worth it? ... just for these,

                                             KATSUMOTO
                           I cannot live without my soul ... Can you?

They regard each other.


EXT.                      OUTSIDE KATSUMOTO'S HOUSE                           NIGHT

Algren leaves Katsumoto's gate and sets off on foot.


EXT.                        TOKYO STREETS                               NIGHT

As Algren walks, he becomes aware that he is being followed. Two dark figures
lurk some distance behind him. After a few moments, he whips around to face
them. They stand for a moment, then melt away into the shadows.

INT.                      COUNCIL OF STATE CHAMBER                          NIGHT

The Council of State meets in an august chamber. Many of the Council
members wear Western clothes. Cigarette smoke billows.

The young Emperor sits on a dais off to the side, as befits his
ceremonial role in the proceedings.

Omura is speaking ... be stops ... looking at something ... all the Council members turn ... and gape.


Katsumoto strides into the chamber, his swords proudly displayed.

                                              OMURA
                                    (subtitled)
                           Minister Katsumoto, you honor us.

                                                                                            84.
                                              KATSUMOTO
                                    (subtitled)
                          It is my honor to join again the men who are leading
                          Japan into her glorious future.

                                            OMURA
                                  (subtitled)
                          You arc perhaps unaware of this Council's edict
                          regarding the wearing of swords?

                                              KATSUMOTO
                                   (subtitled)
                          I read ever y edict with singular attention.

                                            OMURA
                                  (subtitled)
                          Yet you would bring weapons into this chamber?

                                            KATSUMOTO
                                  (subtitled)
                          This chamber was protected by m y sword for four hundred
                          years--

                                          OMURA
                                 (interrupting, subtitled)
                          We need no protection... We are a nation of laws now.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                                    (calm, subtitled) .
                          We are a nation of whores. Selling ourselves to our Western
                          "allies."

Katsumoto slowl y looks around at the Members of the Council, but his words are addressed
to the Emperor.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                                  (subtitled)
                          Does Japan no longer need its patriots?

Omura speaks with quiet conviction and honesty.

                                             OMURA
                                   (subtitled)
                          Who is the patriot? The man who would keep his
                          country trapped in the past, or the man who would help
                          his people into the future?

                                             KATSUMOTO
                                   (subtitled)
                          A future with no honor,

                                             OMURA
                                   (subtitled)
                          Honor means less to me than feeding our children. And
                          teaching them. And giving them modern medicine so
                          they will live.    .

                                                                                     85.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           And lining your own pockets in the process.

They stare at one another with barely concealed hostility.

                                               OMURA
                                     (subtitled)
                           Minister Katsumoto, it is with great regret that I ask
                           you to remove your sword, as this body has declared
                           in its edict.

Katsumoto's hand closes on his sword hilt

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           This sword serves the emperor, and only he can
                           command me to remove it.


Katsumoto looks to the Emperor, as murmurs fill the room.

                                               OMURA
                                    (quickly)
                           Ah, but it is our tradition that the Emperor's voice is
                           too pure and great to be heard in such worldly
                           circumstance as the Council of State.

One last time, Katsumoto meets the Emperor's eye.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                           Then, with great regret, I must refuse to give up my
                           sword.

Omura looks to his associates, and a silent decision is made.

                                             OMURA
                           Minister Katsumoto, I must invite you to
                           accompany our soldiers to Himeji Castle, where
                           you will be our honored guest. I think you will
                           find the surroundings there quite harmonious.

Guards with Mauser rifles move into position around Katsumoto. He turns to
the other Council members. Looks at them.

                                              KA TSUMOTO
                                    (subtitled)
                           Brothers ... One day you will know what you have done
                           and feel what I never will ... shame.

Omura nods to the guards. The guards lead Katsumoto out.

                                                                                                  86.
EXT.                            LIVING QUARTERS                       AFTERNOON

A BEARER is loading the last of Algren's luggage on the back of a rickshaw.
Algren emerges from the building, sees the same two disreputable MEN
who followed him earlier lurking nearby.

He resists the temptation to confront them. Instead he climbs into the
rickshaw and it starts off.
But a moment later, Graham has jogged alongside, huffing and puffing.

                                                      GRAHAM
                                     Thought I'd missed you. Were you going to leave
                                     without even saying goodbye?

                                                        ALGREN
                                     I have a fear of sentimental Englishmen.

                                                       GRAHAM
                                     You sod.
                                              (trying to keep up)
                                     Christ, give us. . second here

Algren indicates for the bearer to stop. Graham tries to catch his breath.

                                                       GRAHAM
                                     You're making a mistake, I promise you.
                                     Katsumoto's under house arrest, Omura's made
                                     his move -- he'll need you more than ever --

Graham stops, sees the look on Algren's face, realizes.

                                                        GRAHAM
                                     Oh, my goodness. How silly of me.. All that
                                     time you were with him, up in those mountains,
..................................   ...I told you they were a remarkable people...

Algren doesn't answer, but isn't denying it either.

                                                     GRAHAM
                                     Then you should get out. Because Omura will
                                     become rather impatient with anyone who isn't on the team.

Graham notices Algren staring at his followers.

                                                       GRAHAM
                                     Case in point.

                                                       ALGREN
                                     Who are they?

                                                       GRAHAM
                                     Ronin would be m y guess. Disgraced samurai
                                     doing odd jobs for his Nibs.

                                                                                 87.

                                           ALGREN
                           What do they want from me?

                                            GRAHAM
                           To make sure you're on the side of God and
                           Country, or to make sure you get the hell out.

                                            ALGREN
                           You've been a great help, Graham. I thank you.

                                            GRAHAM
                           Look who's getting sentimental now.

A look bet ween them, then Algren nods for the bearer to continue.


EXT.                  HARBOR                             SUNSET

Algren stands at the gangplank. Porters wait with his luggage. Algren looks
back into the crowd and sees the ronin. They glare back, no longer trying to
keep out of sight.

A BLAST from the steam whistle.

Algren looks from the ship, to the ronin, to the bustling, chaotic city behind
them. Finally, he looks out at the harbor and the ocean, beyond which
used to lie his home.

He turns to the bearer.

                                             ALGREN
                                   (subtitles)
                           Take back to quarters. I walk.

And Algren starts back into the city.

EXT.             TOKYO STREETS               EVENING

Down a shadowy street, lit only by t orches. Slowl y we realize he is being
followed and that he knows it.

Up ahead, the street appears to dead-end.

The two Ronin step out from the shadows and face him, their hands on
their swords.

Behind him, Another dangerous looking Ronin joins the one who has been
following him.

They begin to close in.

Algren stands completely still. They grow closer.

Algren appears to close his eyes. And the sound of the approaching footsteps
fades as We HEAR ONLY the sound of his breathing.

                                                                                                             88.

The Ronin draw their swords.

Algren gently opens his eyes. Ever ything has SLOWED DOWN: a sign in
the breeze, a piece of rubbish on the street, the flame of a nearby torch.

A BLUR OF MOTION.

Everything happens so fast it is hard to tell just what has taken place. In the
strobing shadows, all we really know is that Algren has leapt to the attack.

Within seconds, four bodies lie in the street

Algren holds bloody sword.

His face is cut and a sleeve of his jacket is ripped, but other than that he is
unharmed. Ujio has taught him welt

As he stands, catching his breath, we HOLD on his face in CLOSE-UP.

A sudden flash:

We see Algren grab one of the torches and smash it across the ronin's face.

It is the attack ­ replayed in real-time.

Rolling to avoid a death-blow, he grabs the fallen man's sword and eviscerates attacker #2.

The two remaining Ronin strike.

He parries the blow of attacker #3, whirls to slice the legs of attacker #4,
whirls again to cut off the hand of attacker #1, who has returned to the attack.

Meanwhile, attacker #3 serums and charges -- just lit attacker #4 is trying to stand.

Algren steps back as attacker #3 impales attacker #4. Algren steps forward and cuts off the head of attacker #3.


Even now, it has happened too fast to be truly appreciated.

BACK TO THE STREET

We move, closer-still on Algren's face.

A sudden flash:

And so we watch the attack again. in super-slow motion now, so we can fully
appreciate it's terrible beauty.

A torch smashes across a face.

A sword slices the sleeve of a coat.

Sparks fly as two swords meet.

                                                                               89.
A severed hand falls in the dirt.

Blood sprays from a decapitated head.

A sword is wiped clean.

BACK TO THE STREET

In real time, Algren kneels to examine one of the dead Ronin. On his arm is
tattooed a familiar emblem:
The sign of the Omura Zaibatsu


EXT.                OMURA CASTLE                       NIGHT

Omura lives in a huge medieval castle on a promontory directly above Tokyo
Ba y. A testament to Japan's martial past.

INT.                  CASTLE ­ TOWER                       NIGHT

Two guards arc: standing at attention in a dank corridor high in one of the
towers of the castle. Cell doors line the corridor.

Katsumoto's samurai swords lean against the wall next to them.

INT.                       CASTLE ­ CELL                           NIGHT

Katsumoto kneels in a cramped cell. A sound draws his attention. He rises
and looks out a barred window.

Bel ow he sees two rickshaws moving up the twisting road to the castle.


INT.                       RICKSHAW                     NIGHT

Algren and Bagley, in formal dress uniforms, sit in one of the rickshaws.
Bagley looks him over.

                                            BAGLEY
                            Oughtta shave more often, Algren. Becomes you.

                                             ALGREN
                            Thought I would follow the Japanese fashion.

                                             BAGLEY
                            ...Heard you were leaving, actually?

                                            ALGREN
                            Why would I do that? Omura wants me to train his
                            personal guard.

                                             BAGLEY
                            Certainly seems obsessed by you. Why do you
                            think that is?

                                                                                               90.
                                           ALGREN
                          Could it be my nose isn't permanently lodged up
                          his ass?

Bagley shakes his bead, turns away. Algren stares up at the looming aide.


EXT.                       CASTLE- MAIN GATES                               NIGHT

The two rickshaws stop by the heavily-guarded main gates. Guards check the occupants. Motion
to other guards atop the gates.

The main gates slowl y swing open.


EXT.                   CASTLE - COURT YARD                 NIGHT

The bearers lower the rickshaws. Algren and Bagley climb from one.
Ambassador Swanbeck climbs from the other.

EXT.              CASTLE -- RECEPTION CHAMBE R                         NIGHT

Omura waits in elegant evening clothes. A woman plays a harp. The interior
of Omura's castle is heavy, oppressive. Old Masters paintings dot the walls.
Leather-bound boob. Chippendale furniture.

                                             OMURA
                          Gentlemen...

                                          AMBASSADOR SWANBECK
                          Omura, you have a lovel y home. It must be very old.

                                             OMURA
                          Nothing is "old" in Japan, ever ything is "ancient."
                          ... But the views are pleasant. Sit down...

They move to chairs by the roaring fireplace as Omura turns to Algren,
noticing the cut on his face, but saying nothing.

                                             OMURA
                          Do you know your Wagner, Captain? This is
                          the 'Leibestod' from Tristan and Isolde.

                                             ALGREN
                          I'm surprised you enjoy it. Literally translated it
                          means `love/death. '
                                   (looks at him)         .
                          A samurai concept, don't you think?

The two men take each other's measures. Servants appear with trays..


                                        OMURA
                          Champagne? And cigars, of course.

                                                                                       91.

Servants light their cigars.

                                                   BAGLEY
                                         (re: cigar)
                               A gift from President Grant?

                                                 OMURA
                                      (smiles)
                               Queen Victoria.

                                               ALGREN
                               Mr. Omura, may I use the necessit y?

                                                 OMURA
                               Certainly.


Omura summons a servant. The servant escorts Algren out.

                                                 OMURA
                               Now, Mr. Swanbeck, regarding our agreement, I noticed
                               a discrepancy in paragraph seven in reference to the
                               investment protocols for coal.

INT.                           CASTLE ­ CORRIDOR                          NIGHT

The servant leads Algren through a corridor, head bowed.

Then, stil1 puffing on his cigar, Algren taps the servant on the back, and as
the man turns, decks him. The servant falls.

Algren flicks hit cigar out onto the sloping roof. We FOLLOW the
BURNING EMBER as it rolls off the roof and lands at the feet of TWO
CURIOUS GUARDS.

EXT.                     CASTLE COURTYARD                        NIGHT

The guards look up, trying to determine where the cigar butt has come from.
But their curiosity lasts only a moment: ARROWS pierce their necks,
strangling any sound.

We REVERSE to discover that one of the rickshaw-bearers has fired the
arrows. As he peels back his hood, we SEE it is Yoritomo.

We realize the other bearers are Ujio, Nakao, and Simon Graham. They
hurry past the dead guards and up the stairs.

INT.                 CASTLE APPROACH                            NIGHT

The three samurai and Graham race up the winding parapets.

Three GUARDS round a corner. Swords flash as Ujio and Nakao dispatch
them without even slowing. They race on, Graham laboring to keep up.

                                                                                  92.
INT.                    CASTLE KEEP                     NIGHT

Algren rounds a corner--

Ujio, Yoritomo, Nakao, and Graham are moving toward him.

                                              ALGREN
                           This wa y...

Clearly, this has all been Algren's plan. They move up a stairwa y.

INT.                CASTLE KEEP (SECOND FLOOR)                           NIGHT

The three guards are still standing at attention outside Katsumoto's cell.
His swords are next to them.

Algren keeps the others out of sight and lowers his head to whisper with
Ujio. Ujio nods, then walks into sight and calmly approaches the guards.

Still hidden, Algren gestures for the others remain to silent. After a
moment, he gestures that they can proceed.

Algren and the others round the comer to discover the bloody remains of
the three guards - whom Ujio has dispatched in absolute silence. They unlock
the cell.

INT.                   CASTLE ­ CELL                         FOLLOWING

Katsumoto is shocked to see Algren enter. Algren tosses him his swords.

                                           ALGREN
                           How's the poem coming?

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           The ending is proving difficult.

INT.                      CASTLE -- RECEPTION CHAMBER                     NIGHT


Omura glances up from the documents.

                                            OMURA
                                What has become of Captain Algren?

INT.                       CASTLE ­ CORRIDOR                          NIGHT

Algren, Katsumoto, and the others race through an upper corridor.

                                           KATSUMOTO
                                   (re:Graham)
                           Who is this?

                                          ALGREN
                           Name's Simon Graham. Wants to write a book
                           about you.

                                                                                   93.

                                                GRAHAM
                           An honor. I have followed your activities with
                           great interest. I think the European public
                           would be fascinated by a book about your
                           adventures.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           Not a book. A play!

Suddenly, from below, the raised voices of guards. They hurry a wa y.

INT.               CASTLE ­ STAIRS                     NIGHT

Guards carrying pikes race up the stairs--


INT.                CASTLE ­ CORRIDOR                  NIGHT

Algren and the others are moving swiftl y down a stone corridor.

The sound of the approaching guards is growing louder.

A silent WILD BUNCH moment of preparation as they stride down the
corridor, five abreast.

Algren pulls the cavalry saber from his dress uniform. Katsumoto prepares
his swords. Nakao stretches his huge arms. Yoritomo and Uji o draw their bows.

EXT.                   CASTLE - UPPER COURTYARD                        FOLLOWING

Ten guards with rifles patrol the upper battlements.

Yoritomo and Uji o crouch and fire. Arrow a fter arrow a fter arrow, as
fast as a repeating rifle, the arrows streak through the night.
Completely silent.

It is a dazzling display. They time shots to sail over walls, shoot through
tiny windows, shoot out torches. Multiple arrows. Perfect aim.

In a matter of seconds all ten guards are dead.

They continue across the courtyard, up some steps --

INT.             CASTLE--TIGHT CORRIDOR                         FOLLOWING

They stride through a tight, dark stone corridor.

Suddenly, a cadre of Omura guards emerge from the shadows.

Without hesitation, they launch into battle. Algren and Katsumoto wield
their swords. Yoritomo and Ujio fire arrows.

Nakao fights with his hands, dramatic martial arts from the huge man.

                                                                                                                 94.
But this corridor is just too tight -- it is a sea of combat.. the guards and
our warriors are slammed together --the swords and pikes sending up sparks
in the darkness as they strike the stone walls.

The right corridor echoes with samurai war cries and clanging swords.

Then...

More guards appear.

These guards have rifles.

Rifle blasts thunder --startling strobe-like bursts of light in the darkness --

Algren dives in front of Katsumoto to protect him-

Yoritomo is hit-

He jerks back -- blood--

Ujio fires arrows at the guards with rifles, hitting two -- but more guards with rifles are appearing, bullets
sending showers of debris and ricochets--

Algren sees a stairway leading to a higher 1evel, barks out a command. As Nakao drags
Yoritomo toward the stairs-- the others bolt a heavy SIEGE DOOR ­
designed to keep attackers at bay.

INT.                        CASTLE SIEGE ROOM                           NIGHT

Ujio fires arrows through the siege ports -- momentarily delaying the guards
as Algren leads them toward a rear stairs.

INT.                       REAR STAIRS                      NIGHT

Algren starts down -- only to discover MORE GUARDS blocking this means
of escape. He backs out of the wa y just in time as rifle blasts SPLINTER
the wooden stairwe11.

Meanwhile, an EXPLOSION from behind them indicates that the guards
have blown the siege door.

Algren, Graham, and Ujio have no choice but to continue upwards into the
castle keep. Nakao helps the wounded Yoritomo as they climb.

INT.                UPPER KEEP                    NIGHT

A narrow ladder leads to the final redoubt. They start to climb but Yoritomo
leans against the wall. He is gravely wounded.

                                                ALGREN
                            Come on.

                                              YORITOMO
                                    (subtitled)
                            You go, Algren-san. I will stop them.

                                                                                   95.

                                             ALGREN
                           No--

                                             YORITOMO
                           ...Please.

Yoritomo's determination is absolute. Finally, Algren nods.

Katsumoto moves to Yoritomo, leans in for a few final words, taking his
head and pressing his forehead to Yoritomo's.

Bullets begin ricocheting around them -- Yoritomo looks to Algren:

                                              YORITOMO
                                    (subtitled)
                           Tell my family.

Algren bows his bead in respect.

Then Algren leads them up the stairs. Ujio fires a final volley, nods with
respect to Yoritomo, then follows the others.


Yoritomo pulls himself erect. Draws his two samurai swords.

A beat. He closes his eyes. Smiles.

Then he opens his eyes and hurls himself down the stairs--

The guards fire hitting Yoritomo - but still he comes -- wading into them
swords flashing -- he is hit again and again -- but still he comes.

It is a glorious death.

EXT.                      SIEGE ROOM                     NIGHT

Algren leads them into the highest room of the castle, the siege room. The
echoes Yoritomo's death rings in their ears.                                   .

Katsumoto glances at Ujio and Nakao. Without a word, they kneel on the
floor, open their kimonos and unsheathe their short-swords, preparing to
commit seppuku.

                                             ALGREN
                           No. Wait...!

Katsumoto glares at him harshly, furious to have his concentration disturbed
at such a moment.

                                              ALGREN
                           There's a wa y out. Look--!

Reluctantly, Katsumoto joins him at the window.

                                                                                                        96.
                                                ALGREN
                             This place is designed to keep people from getting
                             in, not from getting out. We can make it

                                              KA TSUMOTO
                             This was your plan?

                                              ALGREN
                             Do you have a better one?

Nakao and Ujio look at Katsumoto, awaiting his response. He turns to Algren.

                                                 ALGREN
                             I may die. But I'll die trying.

And without another word he LAUNCHES himself out the window, onto the sloping roof.

EXT.                   CASTLE ROOF TOPS                          NIGHT

Like his cigar butt earlier in the sequence, he rolls, then falls, hits another
roof, rolls, slides, falls, hits again.

INT.                  UPPER KEEP                          CONTINUOUS

Katsumoto and the others share a look. Has he survived?

GUNFIRE begins to pepper the floorboards, bullets whistling past them.


EXT.                 CASTLE ROQF TOPS                          CONTINUOUS

Algren slides, bumps, rolls, falls, hits, then slides again. Until he finally plummets into the moat.

As his head rises above water, he lets out a scream of absolute joy.

INT.                  UPPER KEEP                    CONTINUOUS

Katsumoto hears the scream. A look of disbelief spreads over his face.
Then the beginnings of a smile. Without a second look, be leaps out the
window. Ujio follows.

Graham shrinks away in fear. Nakao lifts him bodily, throws him out, and then follows.

INT.                      CASTLE -- RECEPTION CHAMBER                        LATER

Omura stands, very calm, smoking a cigarette, listening to the report of his guards.
Colonel Bagley tries to apologize.

                                               BAGLEY
                             ... 1 don't know what to say, sir. I never would
                             have thought him capable of treason.

                                              OMURA
                             I would say Captain Algren's acts tonight have
                             assured our success.

                                                                                 97.
                                          AMBASSADOR SWANBECK
                           What do you mean?

                                             OMURA
                           Katsumoto will rejoin his kinsmen. They will fight.
                           We will destroy them with your new weapons.

                                             BAGLEY
                           What if he just goes off to the mountains and
                           becomes a damn sheep-herder or some such?

                                             OMURA
                           You still do not understand us ... Katsumoto can
                           do nothing but fight. It is his role in the drama.
                           He must act out his destiny. He knows it.

                                              AMBASSADOR SWANBECK
                           You trust a lot in destiny.

                                               OMURA
                           This story was written years ago. From the first
                           sight of your warships in our harbor...
                                      (stares out the window)
                           It is a1l inevitable.

EXT.             HILLS                           SUNSET

Algren, Katsumoto, and the others ride over rocky ground.

                                            ALGREN (V.O.)
                           June 1, 1877. Yesterday, I passed the field where
                           Zebulon Gant was killed by the man with whom
                           I now ride.
In the distance a steam train chugs along. Inevitable. Progress.


EXT.                 FOREST ­ MOUNTAINS                     DAY

They climb a steep trail. Beyond, the glaciers glow pink.


                                             ALGREN (V.O.)
                           I am beset by ironies -- trained to fight rebels
                           now I am one. And yet 1 ask mysel f... can a man
                           be reborn?:

Algren, Katsumoto, and the others ride through a dense forest Katsumoto
reins his horse. The others follow suit. They wait

                                            ALGREN (V.O.)
                           And if so, what would he make of it?

Mounted samurai emerge from the thick forest As it they were invisible.

                                                                                98.
The leader leaps from his horse and bows, touching his head to the dirt.
All the other samurai follow suit.

EXT.    CHERRY TREE FOREST--NEAR THE VILLAGE                       EVENING

Katsumoto rides at the head of his samurai as they pass through the cherry
orchard. Then he reins his horse and falls in beside Algren.

                                              KATSUMOTO
                                    (his voice troubled)
                           I was prepared to die in Omura's castle. And
                           yet here I am. I cannot help but ask why were
                           you sent into my life. What is the lesson you
                           were meant to give me?

                                            ALGREN
                           Maybe that neither of us is as smart as we
                           thought...

Katsumoto laugh. And then in a surprisingly deft imitation of Algren


                                              KATSUMOTO
                           You...ain't whistlin' Dixie...


He spurs his horse and heads off. Algren shakes his head and follows.

EXT.               VILLAGE                     EVENING

The returning warriors are warmly welcomed by the villagers.


Algren rides directly to Yoritomo's house, dismounts.

Taka and Toshiie are waiting.

He goes to them. His expression tells them all they need to know.

INT.          YORITOMO'S HOUSE                           NIGHT


Algren sits with the family. The boys sit next to their mother.


                                               ALGREN
                                     (subtitles)
                           ... he gave his life to save us. He died bravel y.

                                             TAKA
                                   (subtitles)
                           Thank you, Algren-San.

                                                                                    99.
                                             HIGEN
                                   (subtitles)
                           Will you fight the white men?

                                               ALGREN
                                     (subtitles)
                           If they come here, yes.

                                               HIGEN
                                     (subtitles)
                           Why?


                                             ALGREN
                                   (subtitles)
                           Because they come to destroy what I have come to love.

Taka looks at him, moved and surprised. Suddenly, Higen jumps up and
bolts... out of the room. Algren looks to Taka.

                                              TAKA
                                    (subtitles)
                           The wa y of Samurai is difficult for children. He
                           misses his father.

                                            ALGREN
                           And he is angry because I am the cause of that.

She smiles ever so slightly at his obliviousness.

                                             TAKA
                           No. He it angry because he fears you will die as well.

EXT.             VILLAGE                    NIGHT

Higen stands, looking up at the stars.

                                              ALGREN
                           Higen.

                                             HIGEN
                                   (subtitles)
                           My father taught me it is glorious to die in battle.

                                              ALGREN
                                    (subtitles)
                           That is what he believed.

                                              HIGEN
                                    (subtitles)
                           I would be afraid to die in battle.

                                             ALGREN
                                   (subtitles)
                           So would I.

                                                                                  100.

                                              HIGEN
                                    (subtitles)
                            But you have been in many battles.

                                              ALGREN
                                    (subtitles)
                            And I was always afraid.

Higen looks at him, tears welling in his eyes.

                                               HIGEN
                                     (subtitles)
                            I don't want you to go.

Algren has no answer. He can only gather the boy up in his arms and hold
him.

EXT VILLAGE DAY

Nakao is standing proudly, his massive arms folded across his chest. We
pull back: Graham is bunched behind his photographic equipment. A flash
of phosphorous and the moment is immortalized.

Meanwhile, Algren is working with Higen on the house.

Katsumoto silently watches Algren working with the boy.

                                                 KATSUMOTO
                            Algren-san.

Algren turns.

                                                 KATSUMOTO
                            They are corning.

EXT      MOUNTAINS          DAY

Algren and Katsumoto perch on a precipice, looking down into a valley.

It is a beautiful setting. Towering peaks and peaceful valleys. It is here that
the final act of the inevitable drama will play out.

Bel ow they see the Imperial Army, thousands strong, marching across the
valley toward them. Terrifying martial columns in strict formation.

                                                ALGREN
                            I call it five thousand troops. They'll come in
                            waves of about a thousand, a few minutes between
                            each wave.

Katsumoto listens carefully to Algren's expertise.

                                                                                101.
                                              ALGREN
                           German formations have the infantry staggered
                           with on1y light flanking. They'll come straight on
                           with rifles and fixed bayonets. Mausers are only
                           accurate to about 150 yards. They'll look to
                           overthrow us.

Katsumoto takes this in.

EXT.                  VALLEY                             DAY

Colonel Bagley, Omura, several German advisors and Japanese officers ride
at the head of the Imperial Army.                                         .

Bagley sees something, raises a hand. The troops halt.

Algren and Katsumoto ride up to them. Stop.

                                             ALGREN
                           Colonel.

                                              BAGLEY
                           Captain... (to Katsumoto)... Sir, the Imperial
                           Army of Japan demands your surrender. If you
                           and your fellows lay down your arms you will
                           not be harmed.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                           That is not possible. As Omura knows.

Omura meets Katsumoto's look, nods. Bagley turns to Algren.

                                             BAGLEY
                           Captain Algren, we will show no quarter. You
                           ride against us and you are the same as they are.

                                               ALGREN
                           I take that as a compliment, Colonel.
                                      (a deadly calm)
                           I'll look for you on the field.

Algren and Katsumoto wheel their horses and go.

EXT.                 MOUNTAIN RIDGE                      DAY


Algren and Katsumoto ride.

                                           ALGREN
                           They have the howitzers.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                           How many?

                                             ALGREN
                           About a dozen.

                                                                                              102.

Katsumoto considers this. Algren looks up into the mountains.

                                              ALGREN
                            A man could get lost up there ... Build an army.
                            Hold out a very long time.

                                              KATSUMOTO
                            Algren-san...Have you seen what happens to the
                            villages that stand In the way of the railroad?

Algren nods. He remembers.

                                               KATSUMOTO
                            That is what will happen to my village if we do
                            not stand and fight.
                                     (looks at him)
                            No. We serve the Emperor here.

                                               ALGREN
                            By dying?

                                               KATSUMOTO
                            Perhaps.

                                              ALGREN
                            At least make it battle, not a suicide.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                            And what would that accomplish?

Algren lifts his head, enjoying the feeling of the sun and wind on his face.

                                                ALGREN
                            It might give you one more day ... One more
                            fine day like this.

Katsumoto stares at him for a long moment, then smiles and spurs his horse. Algren follows.

They ride together, side by aide, the wind billowing their cloaks -- We enjoy the
ride as they do, the trees strobing by, the sun slanting through the leaves.

EXT.                      VILLAGE                       NIGHT
It is the eve of battle. And the samurai rejoice.

Katsumoto is on stage at the center of the village square, enthusiastically
performing a Noh drama. Algren sits with Toshiie and Taka in the audience,
enjoying Katsumoto's theatrics.

Other samurai can be seen around the village, eating, singing, and playing
instruments. Tonight is for celebrating life.

Elsewhere, a flash as Graham takes a photograph of some children.

                                                                                            103.
On the stage, Katsumoto spots Algren in the audience, points to him and
encourages him to join him. Algren resists. Toshiie prods him. Algren
surrenders and joins Katsumoto on the stage. The villagers are delighted.

Katsumoto embroils Algren in the performance. Algren does his best,
laughing at Katsumoto's antics.

It is the freest and happiest we have ever seen Algren. Time
SLOWS as we Savor his simple enjoyment

Toshiie is highly amused. Taka has a deeper response, she is moved as she
watches Algren give himself over to the part.

EXT.            VILLAGE                      LATER THAT NIGHT

A somber mood has descended. Algren sits and writes in his journal.

                                              ALGREN (V.O.)
                            July 14, 1877. For so long now, I have managed
                            to convince myself that there was nothing worth
                            believing in.

A samurai plays a melancholy bamboo flute. The gentle sound floats through the village...

                                              ALGREN (V.O.)
                            Certainly nothing worth dying for.

We see samurai preparing for the final battle. Some check
their armor... Others meditate...

                                             ALGREN (V.O.)
                            Now I am not so sure.

Some make up their faces so they will look handsome when they greet death.
Some methodically polish their swords. Some sit with their families.

                                               ALGREN (V.O.)
                            And so, for the first time in my life, I am truly
                            afraid. Not of dying. But of losing something
                            worth living for.

Ujio is performing a graceful, ritualistic sword-dance to the song of the flute.
Algren Joins Graham to watch him.

                                                GRAHAM
                            What is it:? .

                                              ALGREN
                            The kenbu,.. his dance of death.

Taka comes to them.

                                              TAKA
                                    (subtitles)
                            Algren-san, will you come with me?

                                                                                   104.

Algren leaves Graham and accompanies Taka toward the house.

They pass Higen and Toshiie, who sit with other children at the feet of the
massive Nakao, listening to a quiet story he tells,

INT.                   YORITOMO'S HOUSE                     FOLLOWING

The gentle flute music from outside drifts in.

One of Yoritomo's beautiful kimonos is elegantly spread on a mat.

                                               TAKA
                                     (subtitles)
                            If you wear this, it will honor us.

He nods.

She steps to him.

A moment. She gently reaches forward and unbuttons his collar.

A tender, silent scene as she undresses him and carefully wraps him in the
 kimono. Her hands move gracefull y around his body, never quite touching
him. His movements are gentle in response.

When he is fully dressed, then are tears in his eyes.

Suddenly, fiercely, they are holding each other.

EXT.             KATSUMOTO'S HOUSE -- PORCH                  LATER THAT NIGHT
The quiet evening continues.

Algren, now dressed in the kimono, finds Katsumoto carefully dropping little
leaves of incense into a small flame that simmers inside his battle helmet.

                                               KATSUMOTO
                            So m y hair will have a pleasing scent when I
                            meet my ancestors ... (dry) ... You do not do this ?

Algren smiles, sits.
                                                 ALGREN
                            I studied war at a place called West Point. They
                            taught us about a battle called Thermopylae.
                            Three hundred brave warriors held off the king
                            of Persia's army of a million men. For two da ys
                            they made them pay so dearly that the king lost
                            all appetite for further invasion
                                       (looks at him)
                            ... I have some thoughts about the battle tomorrow.

                                              KATSUMOTO
                                    (bemused)
                            Do you really think we can defeat them?

                                                                                         105.

                                               ALGREN
                            I sure as hell want to find out.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                            You believe a man can change his destiny?

                                              ALGREN
                            No ... But I think a man cannot know his destiny.
                            He can only do what he can, until his destiny is
                            revealed.

A si1ent beat.

Then Katsumoto picks up a long bundle wrapped in cloth. He unwraps it.
A beautilu1 long samurai sword.

He bows his head and offers it to Algren.

There are Japanese characters etched on the blade.

                                                ALGREN
                            What does it say?

                                              KATSUMOTO
                            "I belong to the warrior in whom the old ways
                            have joined the new."

Algren is moved beyond words. He bows.

As the CAMERA pulls away, Algren and Katsumoto squat side by side,
drawing in the dirt with a stick, planning the next day's battle strategy.

Across the square, Ujio continues his elegant dance of death, his graceful
form illuminated in silhouette by a fire.

INT.          YORITOMO'S HOUSE                   MORNING

It is the day of the battle. Algren is buttoning the long coat of his cavalry uniform.

He looks up to see Higen standing in the doorwa y, holding the breast-plate
of his father's armor.

EXT.             YORITOMO'S HOUSE                 DAY

Algren emerges from the house, wearing the breast-plate over his coat.
Taka is at his horse, tying a bag of food to the saddle. She turns and sees her
husband's armor on this man. And her breath stops.

Algren approaches her. They stand very cl ose.



                                                TAKA
                                      (subtitles)
                            Return.

                                                                                         106.

                                                 ALGREN
                                       (subtitles)
                            If that is my destiny ... Anshinritsumai. [I
                            wish you peace.]

                                               TAKA
                            Anshinritsumai.

He bows his head to her, she responds. The boys stand on the porch,
watching. He mounts his horse and trots off. They watch him go.                      .

Algren joins the line of samurai leaving the village. It is the first time we have
seen them in their full battle armor since the battle in the fog.

Katsumoto in his black armor, Ujio in his jet black. And Algren in the blood-red
breast-plate. It is dazzling.

EXT.      BATTLEFIELD           DAWN

We move along the line of waiting samurai. The faces are stoic. Prepared.
Their horses are corralled well behind them.

Algren stands with Katsumoto and Ujio. Graham is nearby. They peer into the
plain beyond.

They have chosen a strong defensive position. A steep mountain pass. Slopes on either
side create a funnel ahead of them. The Imperial Army will have to pass through the
funnel to reach them.

On a hill above them

Higen is revealed. He looks down first at the five hundred Samurai, then
sees, beyond, the overwhelming mass of the IMPERIAL ARMY.

Back on the battlefield

A distant thud followed by a high-pitched whine. A MASSIVE EXPLOSION
ahead of the Samurai. Artillery.

Algren finds Graham cowering at the base of a straw barricade.

                                               ALGREN
                            Mr. Graham....

                                               GRAHAM
                            Captain?

                                            ALGREN
                            Would you please stay with the horses?

Graham would like to be brave enough to remain, but he is not a soldier.

                                               GRAHAM
                            As you suggest.

                                                                                    107.

Graham starts to go --

                                             ALGREN
                            Mr. Graham ... Take this.

From his coat, Algren takes his journal, hands it to Graham.

                                            ALGREN
                            Maybe you can use it for your book.

                                               GRAHAM
                            I will.

He heads back to the relative safet y of the horse corral.

Meanwhile, the samurai remain impassive as artillery is stepped in closer, the
range bracketed. Then artillery rounds begin to fall among them.

Samurai are blown to pieces as they bravel y stand and await
death. Katsumoto BARKS a command to Ujio.

Suddenly, the Samurai break ranks and trot into a new defense
alignment. The artillery rounds now fall ineffectually where once
they stood.

Bagley directs the artillery to be re-targeted, It is a laborious, clumsy
process. They fire again. Another command. The Samurai change
position again.

Bagley is furious. Their fluid tactics have rendered his field artillery useless.

Katsumoto and Algren share a look of grim satisfaction. They are leveling
the playing field.

Bugle calls are heard from the Imperial Army.

                                              ALGREN
                            The call to advance.

The rattle of the snare drums. The sound of marching boots.

And then they appear. Thousands upon thousands of them. The Imperial
Army marching relentlessly forward in strict formation. The Rising Sun displayed.

Katsumoto gazes at the awe-inspiring sight. His 500 samurai face a staggering
5,000 soldiers.

                                              KATSUMOTO
                            Tell me ... what happened to those three hundred
                            warriors at Thermopylae?

                                                                                 108.
                                               ALGREN
                                      (a grim smile)
                             Dead to the last man.

Katsumoto glances to him, smiles.


EXT.                THE SAMURAI POSITION                     CONTINUOUS

The First Division of the Imperial Army moves into the funnel, their numbers
reduced by the size of the access, and head toward the barricade.

Katsumoto and Algren watch as they move closer and closer. We
are expecting the samurai to open fire, but they do not. They just
wait.

Finally the Imperial soldiers are in rifle range. They stop to fi re a volley.

Bullets begin hitting among the samurai. Many fall.

Algren nods to Katsumoto, Katsumoto then calls out a command and the
samurai retreat.

They race back toward the rear of the funnel.

The Imperial Army soldiers climb awkwardly over the first barricade and
pursue--

The samurai, meanwhile, have taken cover behind a second barricade that
had been hidden from the Imperial soldiers' view. Now safel y behind
the second barricade, Katsumoto calls out a command and--

The samurai fire!

500 arrows explode -- almost instantly followed by 500 more --

Like an image from Agincourt, the clouds of arrows sweep across the sky --

Imperial Soldiers fall, the attack falters--

From behind the new barricades, archers fire FLAMING ARROWS, that
Hit the old barricade. It EXPLODES INTO FLAMES, trapping the Imperia1
Army bet ween the two barricades.

And from the second barricade, two large CA TAPULTS send balls of flaming
pitch into the already panicking soldiers.

EXT.                        OPPOSING HILL TOP                    DAY

Colonel Bagley, Omura, several German advisers and Japanese Officers
watch through binoculars. Stunned. As the First Wave is routed.

                                                HAGLEY
                             What the hell?

                                                                                          109.
                                               OMURA
                             It seems Katsumoto will resist his destiny.
                                      (snaps an order)
                             Send in the second wave. Two divisions.

EXT.                  BARRICADES                          DAY

Algren and Katsumoto wait behind the second barricade. We note that this
barricade is the real thing.

Katsumoto removes a piece of shattered armor from his left forearm, a
bullet wound beneath. Algren looks over the barricade.

They see Imperial soldiers using semaphore flags to communicate with their commanders
on the opposing hilltop.

                                                KATSUMOTO
                             How long?

                                                ALGREN
                             They need to regroup and report our position. Then
                             they'll come hard.

Katsumoto considers the bodies of the dead Imperia1soldiers.

                                                 KA TSUMOTO
                             It is sad to see brave men die without faces... You cannot
                             tell one warrior from another.

                                               ALGREN
                             They're not warriors. They're soldiers. It's a
                             modern army.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                             Not my world anymore.

EXT.            BATTLE FIELD                   DAY

Bugles. The attack is reforming. Ranks now bolstered by reinforcements.

They come at a trot, through the narrow defile, skirting the first barricade,
continuing at a trot toward the second barricade.

EXT.              2ND BARRICADE                      DAY

Katsumoto pulls his long sword. Algren does the same.

Katsumoto calls out an order -- the archers fire another round.

The Imperial soldiers are being annihilated but still they come in great waves --
for ever y one who falls it seems there are ten to take his place.

They race forward, stepping over their fallen comrades, bayonets poised --

The Mauser rifles flash --

                                                                                           110.

Bullets explode around the samurai, many are hit.

The Imperial Army has been trained to keep firing on the run. The waiting
Samurai will be decimated, except --

From the hills on either side

Fully half of the Samurai force -- who have been kept hidden until this moment...
charge, screaming into the flank of the attacking Army. Even rifles cannot fire in
three directions at once.

Algren and Katsumoto lead the charge over the second barricade. Some are cut down,
but in moments swords engage ba yonets in brutal hand-to-band combat.

Algren And Katsumoto fight back to back, as if one person, slashing with their
swords, shattering bayonet, dealing death on all sides.

Ujio crouches, his back leg straight and planted, his front leg bent. Still using
his bow, firing off arrows with Stunning speed, refusing to budge--

On the opposing hillside

Bagley and Omura watch the battle through binoculars.

                                                  BAGLEY
                                A classic "V" ambush. Sonofabitcb is using
                                Welt Point tactics.

In the midst of the battle

A charging soldier thrust     s his bayonet into Katsumoto's arm - Katsumoto kills,
the soldier with his short    sword but is awkwardly tangled with his body, a second
soldier races toward him      for the kill - Algren spins and attacks killing the second
soldier - but a third races    toward Algren, bayonet f1ashing

He dodges -- but the bayonet slices into his side --

Algren kicks the soldier away -- tries to use his sword but the soldier springs
back ath1etically .. Ujio appears like a black spectral figure to deliver the
coup de grace.

All SOUND gradually fades and is replaced by the elegaic sound of a bamboo
flute... the images of combat become fragmented and impressionistic.

Bur no matter how bravel y the samurai fight, they are simply outnumbered...

Nakao is like a cornered bear, arcing his two swords wildly around him. He
is shot in the chest, and staggers a moment before continuing. Another
soldier shoots him in the arm at point blank range. Nakao', sword goes fl ying,
so the giant Samurai leaps forward and picks up the shooter bodily, twirling
him around like a wrestler, throwing him finally onto the upraised pike of a
fellow Imperial soldier. But now three more soldiers have levelled their
weapons, and a ruthless volley staggers him again. Shots rain on him as he
tries to continue fighting, but his strength leaves him. Finally, with one last
lunge, he manages to pull an Imperial soldier with him, crushing him as he falls.

                                                                                   111.
More and more fall as Algren, Katsumoto, and their comrades fight desperately...

The mournful flute is the appropriate accompaniment as Ujio is mortally
wounded. The grim award master is cut through with bullets. Still he fights.
An Imperial soldier holds up a rifle to protect himself, and Ujio's blade cuts
through the barrel. The soldier just has time to look at the gun in amazement
before a second sweep of Uji o's sword beheads him. But there are too many
to take the man's place, and finally fi ve men run Uji o through with bayonets,
and he is pinned against the barricade, still upright in death.

At last, what is left of this second wave of the Imperial Army, retreats.

EXT.             PLAIN                            ALMOST SUNSET

The plain before the barricade is littered with Imperial Army dead.

Algren and Katsumoto sit exhausted, leaning against the barricade. They are
both wounded.

Only about. hundred samurai are still alive.

Algren looks over the decimated warriors for a moment. Even those still
alive are in bad shape as they wait for the next wave of Imperial soldiers.

Katsumoto is looking at Ujio's body nearby.

                                           KATSUMOTO
                           He was Kaishaku ... my trusted friend.

                                            ALGREN
                           We won't be able to hold them back this time.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                           This is not your battle. You do not have to die
                           here.

 A long beat.

                                              ALGREN
                           I died a long time ago.

                                            KATSUMOTO
                           But now you live again.

                                               ALGREN
                           Yes.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                           It was not your time.

                                            ALGREN
                           No. Maybe I survived just to live this one last day.

Algren looks at him.

                                                                                      112.
                                               ALGREN
                            I'll stay.

He slowl y pulls himself up. He and Katsumoto gaze at the plain before them.

At the infantry troops massing on the opposing hilltop.

Algren looks at Katsumoto. He reaches into the pocket of his old uniform
and takes out the Medal of Honor he received, long ago, at Sutter's Hill.

He affixes it to his old cavalry tunic.

Katsumoto looks at Algren. They are both thinking the same thing.

Silent agreement.


EXT.                    PLAIN                                  SUNSET

The hundred mounted samurai are a beautiful sight.

They wait in formation in front of the barricade, the long plain through the
funnel to the opposing hilltop before them.

Katsumoto draws his long samurai sword.

Algren draws his.

And they slowl y begin to trot forward...

And then to canter...

BEHIND THE IMPERIAL ARMY

Colonel Bagley and Omura watch, transfixed. There is something
approaching admiration on Omura's face. On Bagley's, there is only malice.

                                              BAGLEY
                            The gatling guns. Quickly.

EXT.                     PLAIN                             SUNSET


Katsumoto points his sword and screams out his war cry. .

And they charge. It is suicidal

It is glorious.

It is the end of the samurai.

They charge forward, their war cries echoing in the canyon.

The Imperial troops fire rifles -- samurai fall .. but still they come: -- pounding
over the earth like something from an ancient dream

                                                                                        113.
Algren and Katsumoto charge side by side. Alive. Warriors.

BEHIND THE IMPERIAL ARMY

Bagley and Omura watch as the samurai fall, one by one.

WITH THE CHARGE

Fifteen or twenty of the samurai -- including Algren and Katsumoto--
somehow manage to fight their way through the lines.

They break into the open.

And continue riding straight toward the rear.

ALGREN AND KATSUMOTO

Are both wounded, yet still they charge. They have only one thought in
mind -- death to their enemies. They gallop forward toward Bagley and Omura.

BAGLEY

Looks around in abject terror. He screams out an order.

TWO WAGONS

Are moving into position. Their rear gates fall open ... revealing the GATILING GUNS.

ALGREN AND KATSUMOTO

Are near enough to see them. Yet they will not be deterred.

They charge on.


Up ahead.

THE GATLING GUNS

Are not yet ready to fire. Japanese soldiers slam ammo belts into the chambers.

ALGREN, KATSUMOTO AND THE REMAINING SAMURAI


Have almost reached their goal.

BAGLEY

Cowers in fear, looks around, but there is nowhere to hide.

THE SAMURAI CHARGE

Even while riding at I full gallop, they have fixed arrows into their long

                                                                                                       114.
bows. They let loose a lethal volley.

BAGLEY

                                             BAGLEY
                            Fire! Fire, dammit!!!!!

But before the guns can open up, he is IMPALED BY ARROW AFTER
ARROW, a human pincushion. The final arrow pierces his forehead.

Then...

The Gatling Guns finally fire. Ripping into the samurai-


Destroying them-

One after another is hit -- and still they come -- their voices raised in glorious cries of triumph-

Graham watches from a hilltop, tears in his eyes.

Katsumoto is hit, blood explodes .- his horse falls -- he spi1ls off--

Then Algren is hit -- he falls--

Algren drags himself to Katsumoto, bullets exploding ever ywhere ­

Algren looks up to see...

The remaining samurai still charging-

And still the Gatling Guns tear through them--

And still they charge ­

Until they are all down.

EXT.             OPPOSING HILLTOP                           SUNSET

A Japanese Officer shouts out an order -- the Gatling Guns stop.

Omura screams at him to continue firing!

The Japanese officer barks out response. Refusing.

Omura sees all the samurai are dead or dying.

But he also sees Algren kneeling by Katsumoto, dragging him awa y. He
screams at the Japanese officer to resume fire!

The Japanese officer refuses.

He just looks over the plain of dying samurai for a moment. Then he does
the most remarkable thing.

He slowl y kneels and touches his head to the dirt.

                                                                                    115.
Then a soldier near him does the same thing. Then another and another.
And then by the thousands.

They kneel and touch their heads to the dirt.

Honoring the last samurai.


EXT.                PLAIN                    SUNSET

A1gren drags the dying Katsumoto to a8 copse of cherry trees nearby...


EXT.                           CHERRY TREES                                SUNSET

Both men are bleeding profusel y.

                                                   KATSUMOTO
                             Help me up...

                                                   ALGREN
                             Just -- stay there.

                                                   KATSUMOTO
                             Help me up.

Algren helps him to stand. Without Algren's support, he would fall.

                                                   KATSUMOTO
                             My sword...

                                                   ALGREN
                             No.

                                              KA TSUMOTO
                             You have your honor again. Let me die with
                             mine ... Kaishaku.

Algren looks at him, deeply moved. Katsumoto manages to pull out his short sword.

                                             KATSUMOTO
                             You must help me. Hold it firmly...

Algren supports Katsumoto as he holds the sword's point firmly to his stomach.

                                                   KA TSUMOTO
                             Are you ready?

                                                   ALGREN
                             No, Kaishaku.

                                                                                     116.
 Katsumoto looks at him deepl y, warmly.

                                                 KATSUMOTO
                               We will ride together again.

Katsumoto embraces Algren firmly -- the sma1l sword impales him

Algren holds him tightly. Katsumoto is looking over Algren's shoulder as he dies.

Katsumoto sees something. A look of joy and absolute peace comes to his features.

                                                   KATSUMOTO
                                         (whispers)
                               It is perfect... They are all perfect.

His eyes cl ose. He is dead.

Algren gently kneels with Katsumoto's body

He holds him for a moment and then turns to see what Katsumoto was looking at.

Cherry blossoms.


A display of perfect beauty.


We slowl y fade to...


INT.               IMPERIAL PALACE -- THRONE                            ROOM DAY


Ambassador Swanbeck, Omura, and a retinue of advisors are presenting the
treaty documents for the Emperor's signature. The Emperor sits restively
on his throne.


                                                  AMBASSADOR SWANBECK
                               ...will usher in an era of unprecedented prosperity
                               and cooperation between our two great nations.
A servant comes and whispers into the Emperor's ear.

                                                   OMURA
                                         (subtitles)
                               Highness, if we could just conclude the matter
                               at hand...

The Emperor ignores Omura, and gestures that the doors to the chamber be opened.

Algren enters with Graham. Algren carries something wrapped in a blanket.
He approaches the Emperor. Kneels and sets the bundle at the Emperor's feet.
Algren remains kneeling with his head bowed. He unwraps the bundle.

                                                                                    117.
It is Katsumoto's long samurai sword.


'The Emperor looks at it.

                                               OMURA
                                     (subtitled)
                            All your enemies are dead, Enlightened One.

The Emperor continues to look at the sword. He does not look up.

                                            EMPEROR/TRANSLATOR
                                   (to Algren)
                            You were with him at the end.

                                              ALGREN/TRANSLA TOR
                            Yes. He asked that I bring you this -- that the
                            strength of the samurai will be with you alwa ys.

The Emperor rises from his chair and sits on the floor, in the traditional
Japanese fashion, before the sword.

                                               OMURA
                                     (after a moment)
                            En1ightcned One, we all weep for his loss, but
                            the future of our country lies in-


The Emperor interrupts him, speaking in English -- to ever yone's surprise.

                                               EMPEROR
                            My ancestors have ruled Japan for 2,000 years.
                            And for all that time we have slept. During my
                            sleep I have dreamed. I dreamed of a unified
                            Japan. Of a country strong and independent and
                            modern...
                                     (touches the sword lovingly)
                            And now we are awake. We have railroads and
                            cannon and Western clothing. But we cannot
                            forget who we are. Or where we come from.

The Emperor looks up at the gathered dignitaries.
               .
                                              EMPEROR
                          Ambassador Swanbeck I have concluded that your treaty
                          is not in the best interests of my people.

                                              AMBASSADOR SWANDECK
                            Sir, if I may--

                                              EMPEROR
                            You may not. From this moment on, economic investment
                            from ever y nation will be considered equally.

                                                                                      118.

Ambassador Swanbeck is stunned.

                                            AMBASSADOR SWANBECK
                          This is an outrage--

The Emperor gestures. A servant escorts Swanbeck to the exit. Omura takes a step
closer to the Emperor.

                                            OMURA
                                  (subtitled)
                          Enlightened One, we should discuss this

                                            EMPEROR
                                  (subtitled)
                          Omura, do you know our northern island?

Omura is confused.

                                              EMPEROR
                                    (subtitled)
                          There is a small one called Taraku. A rock in the sea.
                          There is nothing there but crabs who have been known
                          to tear a sleeping man apart ... I have had a small house
                          constructed on the island. You will go there now and
                          await our summons.

                                             OMURA
                                    (subtitled)
                          Sir...?


                                             EMPEROR
                                   (subtitled)
                          I hereby seize your family's assets and present them
                          as my gift to the people.

Omura looks at him, stunned.

                                             EMPEROR
                                   (subtitled)
                          Further, I have decided to stop the railroad cxpansion
                          into Yoshino.

                                            OMURA
                                  (subtitled)
                          Enlightened One

                                             EMPEROR
                                   (subtitled)
                          You have served your function. I have no more
                          need of you ... You can conspire with the crabs
                          now. Remove yourself.

                                                                                         119.
                                                OMURA
                                      (protests, subtitled)
                             Honored Emperor, I do not know wh y you
                             disgrace me.

The Emperor finally looks up from the sword.

                                                EMPEROR
                                      (subtitled)
                             If your shame is too unbearable ... I offer you
                             this sword.

Omura looks at him for a moment. Then bows tersely and goes.

The Emperor looks at Algren, still kneeling before him.

                                              EMPEROR
                                     (in English again)
                             The samurai is not a man now. He is an idea.
                                     (a beat)
                             Tell me how he died.

Algren looks At the Emperor.

                                                ALGREN
                             I will tell you how he lived.

We slowl y fade as Algren begins to speak...

EXT.                     VILLAGE                   DAY

Spring. A few years later.

There are no samurai training in the square, but otherwise the village is
bustling with life. We HEAR Graham's voice:

                                               GRAHAM (V.O.)
                             ...And so the days of the samurai had ended.

INT.                  LECTURE HALL (ENGLAND)                           DAY

Graham stands at a lectern on a book tour. A well-dressed audience listens
attentivel y. A banner proclaims, "The Last Samurai," by Simon Graham.

                                                GRAHAM (V.O.)
                             And in the years to come the Rising Sun of Imperial Japan
                             would fl y in triumph over Korea, over Russia, even over
                             China. Nations, like men, it is sometimes said, have
                             their own destiny

EXT.                               VILLAGE                             DAY

We see that Yoritomo's house has finally been completed.. Toshiie sits on the porch,
Instructing a group of younger children in calligraphy.

                                                                                    120.
                                            GRAHAM (V.O.)
                           As for the American Captain, no one knows
                           what became of him. All that is left is his journal
                           which I have published, according to his last request.

Taka steps from the house and passes Toshiie, she carries a basket. We
move through the village with her...

                                             GRAHAM (V.O.)
                           Some lay he died of his wounds, others that he
                           returned to his own country...

She passes an old man teaching the Noh drama to a group of teenagers.

She passes Higen, working on a new building. Apparently he has found a
good life as a carpenter. He seems content.

We go with Taka as she leaves the village...

EXT.                     CHERRY TREES                                DAY


Taka moves through the cherry orchard.

                                              GRAHAM (V.O.)
                           But I like to think he may have found at last
                           some small measure of the peace we all seek,
                           but few of us ever find.

Taka stops. Watching. We follow her gaze to discover:

Algren, sitting alone. Gazing peacefully sat the cherry bl ossoms.


Waiting for the perfect one. He turns to her, a smile of quiet joy spreads
across his face.

                                             GRAHAM (V.O.)
                           Anshinritsumai. [I wish you peace.]

Fade out.

