In 2001, one year after the explosion of Flight 180, college student Kimberly Corman heads to Daytona Beach with her friends, Shaina, Dano and Frankie for their spring break.
While driving, Kimberly has a premonition of a pile-up along Route 23, killing everyone involved.
Aghast, she stalls her car and prevents lottery winner Evan Lewis, widow Nora Carpenter and her fifteen-year-old son Tim, businesswoman Kat Jennings, stoner Rory Peters, pregnant Isabella Hudson, teacher Eugene Dix, and cop Thomas Burke from entering the highway.
While Thomas questions Kimberly, the pile-up occurs and Shaina, Dano and Frankie are suddenly killed by a speeding truck, devastating Kimberly.

The survivors are questioned at the police station and informed of the events of the previous film.
Later on, Evan's apartment catches fire and he escapes from it, but ends up having his eyes impaled by a fire escape ladder, killing him.
Meanwhile, Thomas researches the survivors of Flight 180 and learns Alex Browning was killed by a falling brick.
Desperate for help, Kimberly visits Clear Rivers, the last survivor of Flight 180, inside her psychiatric ward.
Though Clear initially refuses to help and invites Kimberly to share her isolation, she warns Kimberly to watch out for 'signs' of death.
Upon arriving home, she sees herself being attacked by pigeons, and accompanied by Thomas, go to save Nora and Tim, but arrive too late and Tim is crushed by a glass pane, devastating Nora.
Clear accompanies Kimberly and Thomas to mortician William Bludworth.
Bludworth explains the equilibrium of Death and "new life", implying their salvation upon the birth of Isabella's child.

Isabella, accused by the police of driving a stolen van, is taken into custody while the other survivors unite for safety.
Overcome by grief, Nora is decapitated by malfunctioning elevator doors.
Horrified, Eugene attempts suicide but fails, prompting the group to leave and find Isabella, who meanwhile goes into labor at the police station.
The policeman on duty rushes her to the hospital in Isabella's van.
En route, they discover that had it not been for the flight 180 survivors, they would all be dead.
As each explain that they had dodged an event that would have killed them, during which Kimberly explains her mother was killed by thieves who wanted her car while she was inside the mall distracted by a news piece of Tod's "suicide" attempt.
The survivors' vehicle nearly collide with Isabella's van as they are driving, prompting them to swerve onto a nearby farm.
In the process, the back of the car is penetrated by PVC pipes.
Eugene's abdomen is punctured by one of the pipes and Kat narrowly avoids another.
Rory pulls Brian Gibbons from the path of a news van as rescuers arrive at the scene.
Their Jaws of Life activates Kat's airbag, spearing her head within the pipe and dropping her cigarette on a gasoline leak, leading to the news van.
This causes the van to explode, sending a barbed wire fence flying through Rory, trisecting him.

As Kimberly, Clear, and Thomas dash to the hospital, Kimberly has another forewarning of Dr. Ellen Kalarjian "strangling" Isabella.
Kimberly and Thomas witness Isabella giving birth and are relieved thinking that the new life will wipe Death's slate clean and save them all.
However, Kimberly has another vision of a submerging van and Isabella's embargo from Death all along, denoting that their trial is still at large.
Clear searches for Eugene, accidentally detonating his room from oxygen combustion, killing Eugene and herself.
Kimberly tackles Thomas from the explosion's debris and realizes her premonitions convey her fate.
Although Kimberly immerses a van into a lake for Thomas' sake, she is recovered by Thomas and resuscitated by Kalarjian.
Afterwards, Thomas and Kimberly have a picnic with Brian's family and Kimberly's father Michael Corman to celebrate their survival.
Learning of Brian's deterrence from Death before, the group witnesses a barbecue grill blast Brian into pieces, catapulting his burnt arm onto his mother's plate as she screams in horror.