A group of CIA agents watch a video presentation of a top-secret project called "Crossbow": a space shuttle mounted with a computer-guided laser weapon that is shown to incinerate a man on the ground with pinpoint accuracy.
The agents discuss the project, noting that it is designed solely for illegal assassinations, but that the researchers developing the laser have not yet been able to generate the power needed.

Professor Jerry Hathaway (Atherton) meets fifteen year old genius Mitch Taylor (Jarret), and tells him that he has been admitted to Pacific Tech, and will be rooming with physics "legend" Chris Knight.
It is revealed that Hathaway is the researcher contracted by the CIA to develop the laser weapon, and that instead of doing the work himself, he has subcontracted the job to his students and used his funding to remodel his house.
Arriving on campus, Mitch meets Chris and is disappointed to learn that Chris, while brilliant, is an irreverent slacker who spends his time pulling elaborate pranks.
Mitch also meets Jordan (Meyrink), a hyperkinetic female student, and the mysterious Lazlo Hollyfeld (Gries).
Hathaway's graduate assistant Kent (Prescott) becomes hostile when Hathaway puts Mitch in charge of the project.

Under pressure to get results, Hathaway gives Chris an unrealistic timetable, which Chris dismisses.
Hathaway scolds Mitch for attending Chris's pool party.
Kent records Mitch's tearful telephone call to his mother and plays it over the cafeteria PA system at lunchtime.
Humiliated, Mitch is ready to quit.
Chris convinces him to stay by telling him how Lazlo was the top genius at Pacific Tech but suffered a breakdown when he learned that his theories were being used to build weapons.
Chris tells Mitch that if he doesn't want to "crack" like Hollyfeld, he must learn to have fun, and the first order of business is to get even with Kent.
Hathaway berates Chris and tells him that no matter what he does he can not graduate.
Chris decides to not only solve the power problem but also to ace Hathaway's exam.
His efforts appear to be ruined when Kent sabotages the laser, but in a fit of anger at the laser's destruction, he has an epiphany that solves the power problem.
The beam of the redesigned laser has an unlimited range and produces an estimated six megawatts of power, exceeding the original requirement.

When the team celebrate their success, Lazlo points out that the high-energy laser can only be used as a weapon, and in fact that it must have been conceptualized for this purpose.
Chris is devastated.
Hathaway has removed both the laser and a tracking system to aim it from the lab.
Chris, Mitch, and Jordan trick Kent into revealing when the laser is going to be tested.
The group tail Hathaway to a nearby Air Force base.
While Chris and Mitch talk their way onto the base, Lazlo remotely cracks the laser's computer and changes its target coordinates to Hathaway's house, where the team have placed a huge tin of popcorn.
When the laser hits the house, it shines through a stained-glass window and the popcorn heats and expands, the house bursts at the seams, and popcorn pours out onto the lawn.
Meanwhile, the laser overheats and destroys itself.
The group watch as kids play in the popcorn.
Hathaway returns to his house and sees the damage up close.