On October 2, 1988, Donnie Darko (Jake Gyllenhaal), a troubled teenager living in Middlesex, Virginia, is awakened and led outside by a figure in a monstrous rabbit costume, who introduces himself as "Frank" and tells him the world will end at a specific time in 28 days.
At dawn, Donnie returns home to find a jet engine has crashed into his bedroom.
His older sister, Elizabeth (Maggie Gyllenhaal), informs him the FAA investigators don't know where it came from.

Donnie tells his psychologist Dr. Thurman (Katharine Ross) about his continuing visits from Frank.
Acting under Frank's influence, he floods his school by damaging a water main.
He also begins dating new student Gretchen Ross (Jena Malone), who has moved to town with her mother under a new identity to escape her violent stepfather.
Gym teacher Kitty Farmer (Beth Grant) blames the flooding on the influence of the short story "The Destructors", assigned by dedicated English teacher Karen Pomeroy (Drew Barrymore), and begins teaching attitude lessons taken from motivational speaker Jim Cunningham (Patrick Swayze).
Donnie rebels against these motivational lessons, leading to friction between Kitty and Donnie's mother Rose (Mary McDonnell).

Donnie asks his science teacher Dr. Kenneth Monnitoff (Noah Wyle) about time travel after Frank brings up the topic, and is given the book The Philosophy of Time Travel, written by Roberta Sparrow (Patience Cleveland), a former science teacher at the school who is now a seemingly senile old woman.

Dr. Thurman tells Donnie's parents that he is detached from reality, and that his visions of Frank are "daylight hallucinations", symptomatic of paranoid schizophrenia.
Donnie disrupts a speech being given by Jim Cunningham by insulting him in front of the student body, then burns down Cunningham's house on instructions from Frank.
When police find evidence of a child pornography operation in the house's remains, Cunningham is arrested.
During a hypnotherapy session, Donnie confesses his crimes to Dr. Thurman and says that Frank will soon kill someone.

Rose agrees to replace Kitty as chaperone for her daughter Samantha's (Daveigh Chase) dance troupe in Los Angeles, so Kitty can testify in Cunningham's defense; with her husband Eddie (Holmes Osborne) in New York on business, her older children are home alone.

Donnie and Elizabeth take the opportunity to throw a Halloween party to celebrate her acceptance to Harvard.
Gretchen arrives, distraught that her mother has disappeared.
Realizing that only hours remain before Frank's prophesied end of the world, Donnie takes Gretchen and two friends to seek Roberta Sparrow at her house.
They are attacked by two school bullies (Alex Greenwald and Seth Rogen) who are attempting to rob Sparrow's house, and the fight spills into the street.
An oncoming car swerves to avoid Sparrow but runs over Gretchen, killing her.
The driver is Elizabeth's boyfriend Frank (James Duval), wearing the same rabbit costume as the Frank of Donnie's visions.
Donnie shoots him with his father's gun.

As a vortex forms in dark clouds above his house, Donnie drives into the hills and watches as an airplane descends above.
The plane, carrying Rose and the dance troupe, is wrenched violently as one of its engines detaches and falls into the vortex.
Events of the previous 28 days recapitulate in reverse order and action, until Donnie finds himself in bed in the early hours of October 2.
As he sits laughing uncontrollably, the jet engine crashes through his room, killing him.
Others with whom Donnie had interacted in the 28 days awaken, some looking disturbed.
Gretchen rides by Donnie's house and learns of his death from a neighborhood boy (Scotty Leavenworth), but says she did not know him.
Gretchen and Rose exchange a glance and wave as if they know one another, but cannot remember where from.