In 2027, after 18 years of global human infertility, civilization is on the brink of collapse as humanity faces the grim reality of extinction.
The United Kingdom, the only stable nation with a functioning government, has been deluged by asylum seekers from around the world, fleeing the chaos and war which has taken hold in most countries.
In response, Britain has become a militarized police state as British forces round up and detain immigrants.
Kidnapped by a militant immigrants' rights group known as the Fishes, former activist turned cynical bureaucrat Theo Faron (Clive Owen) is brought to its leader, his estranged American wife Julian Taylor (Julianne Moore), from whom he separated after their son died from a flu pandemic in 2008.

Julian offers Theo money to acquire transit papers for a young refugee named Kee (Clare-Hope Ashitey), which Theo obtains from his cousin Nigel (Danny Huston), a government minister.
However, the bearer must be accompanied, so Theo agrees to escort Kee in exchange for a larger sum.
Luke (Chiwetel Ejiofor), a Fishes member, drives them and former midwife Miriam (Pam Ferris) towards the coast to a boat.
They are ambushed by an armed gang and Julian is fatally shot.
Luke kills two police officers who stop their car and they escape to a safe house.

Kee is the only known female to be pregnant, revealing her importance to Theo.
Julian had told her to only trust Theo, intending to hand Kee to the "Human Project", a supposed scientific group in the Azores dedicated to curing infertility.
However, Luke persuades Kee to stay.
That night, Theo eavesdrops on a meeting of Luke and other members and discovers that Julian's death was orchestrated by the group so they could use the baby as a political tool to support the coming revolution.
Theo wakes Kee and Miriam and they steal a car, escaping to the secluded hideaway of Theo's aging hippie friend Jasper Palmer (Michael Caine), a former editorial cartoonist who cares for his wife, a former photojournalist who became catatonic after being brutally tortured several years before.

A plan is formulated to board the Human Project ship Tomorrow which will arrive offshore from the Bexhill refugee camp and Jasper proposes getting Syd (Peter Mullan), a camp guard he knows, to smuggle them.
The Fishes trail the group and Jasper stays behind to stall them, giving the government-issued suicide drug Quietus to his wife.
Before escaping with Miriam and Kee, Theo is horrified to witness the Fishes murder Jasper, but is forced to move on.
They eventually meet Syd, who transports them to Bexhill disguised as prisoners.
When Kee begins having contractions on a bus, Miriam distracts a suspicious guard by feigning mania and is taken away.

At the camp Theo and Kee meet a Romani woman Marichka (Oana Pellea), who provides a room where, that night, Kee gives birth to a girl.
The next day, Syd informs Theo and Kee that a war between the British Army and the refugees, including the Fishes, has begun.
After seeing the baby, Syd threatens to turn them in, but Marichka attacks him and the group escapes.
Amidst the fighting however, the Fishes capture Kee and the baby.
Theo tracks them to an apartment under heavy fire from the military and escorts her out.
Awed by the baby, the combatants stop fighting temporarily, enabling them to escape.
Marichka leads them to a boat in a sewer and Theo rows away.
As they watch the bombing of Bexhill by the Royal Air Force from a distance, Theo reveals to Kee that he had been shot in the fighting.
Kee tells Theo she will name her baby Dylan, after Theo's son.
Theo then dies from his wounds as the Tomorrow approaches through the fog.