In 1977, Eddie Adams is a high school dropout who lives with his father and alcoholic mother in Torrance, California.
He works at a Los Angeles nightclub owned by Maurice Rodriguez, where he is discovered by porn director Jack Horner, who auditions him by watching him have sex with Rollergirl, a porn starlet who always wears skates.
After a heated argument with his mother about his girlfriend and his sex life, Adams runs away from home and moves in with Horner at his San Fernando Valley home.
After agreeing to enter the world of pornography, he gives himself the screen name "Dirk Diggler", and becomes a star because of his good looks, youthful charisma, and extraordinarily large penis.
His success allows him to buy a new house, an extensive wardrobe, and a "competition orange" 1976 Chevrolet Corvette Stingray.
Dirk and his best friend/fellow star Reed Rothchild are featured in a series of successful action-themed porn films.

Assistant director Little Bill is married to a porn star who frequently embarrasses him by having sex with other men in public.
At a New Year's Eve party at Jack's house marking the year 1980, he shoots both her and her lover, then turns the gun on himself.

Jack and his main source of funding, the Colonel, have a discussion on New Year's Eve with Floyd Gondolli, a 'theater' magnate in San Francisco and San Diego, who insists on cutting costs by shooting on videotape, a format that Jack detests.
Subsequent to the Colonel's imprisonment for child pornography and due to the technological changes in the industry away from film and towards video tape, Jack eventually cedes and works with Floyd.
He is unhappy with the lack of scripts and character development in the projects Gondolli expects him to churn out as quickly as possible.
One of these projects involves him and Rollergirl, riding in a limousine searching for random men for her to have sex with while a crew tapes it.
When a man recognizes Rollergirl as a former high school classmate, he insults both her and Jack.
They beat him and leave him bleeding and half-conscious on the street.

Leading lady Amber Waves, who took Eddie under her wing when he joined Jack's stable of actors, finds herself in a custody battle with her former husband.
The court determines she is an unfit mother due to her involvement in the porn industry, prior criminal record, and cocaine addiction.

Buck Swope marries fellow porn star Jessie St. Vincent, who shortly thereafter becomes pregnant.
Because of his past, Buck is denied a bank loan to open a stereo equipment store.
He stops at a donut shop and finds himself in the middle of a holdup.
The clerk, the robber, and an armed customer are killed in the resulting shootout.
Buck escapes with the money and uses it to finance his store.

Dirk becomes addicted to cocaine and methamphetamine; consequently, he finds it increasingly difficult to achieve an erection, and he falls into violent mood swings.
After he has a falling out with Jack during a film shoot, he and Reed decide to pursue their dream of rock and roll stardom, a move supported by Scotty, a gay boom operator who is in love with Dirk.
However, they squander their money, leaving themselves unable to pay the recording studio for the demo tapes.
Desperate for money, Dirk resorts to prostitution, but he is assaulted and robbed by a gang of thugs.
Dirk, Reed, and their friend Todd attempt to scam drug dealer Rahad Jackson by selling him a half-kilo of baking soda disguised as cocaine.
The sale seems to have been executed smoothly, but Todd unexpectedly tries to rob Rahad, and is killed in the ensuing gunfight.
Frightened by his brush with death, Dirk tearfully reconciles with Jack.
By 1985, Amber, Rollergirl, and Dirk, now living in Jack's house, prepare to shoot a film.