We hear OVER .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
You know the problem with Hollywood ?
They make shit .
Unbelievable , unremarkable shit .
I 'm not some grungy filmmakerwannabee searching for existentialism through a haze of bong-smoke .
It 's easy to pick apart bad acting , short-sighted directing , or the purely moronic stringing together of words many of the studios term as prose .
No , I 'm talking the lack of realism .
Realism .
Not a pervasive element in the modern American cinematic vision .
Three men sit at a window booth drinking coffee and talking .
Two of the men sit on one side of the table ; STANLEY is in his early thirties , AGENT ROBERTS , early forties .
Both wear suits , the younger 's is fairly expensive and well cut , the other 's is polyester , enough said .
The MAN across , however , is quite different .
He is what they used to call a `` cool-cat . ''
-LRB- MAN . -RRB-
Take Dog Day Afternoon for example .
Arguably Pacino 's greatest performance , excepting The Godfather , Part I , and Scarface , of course .
A masterpiece of directing , easily Lumet 's best .
The acting , the script , cinematography , all top notch .
But , they did n't push the envelope .
What if in Dog Day , Sonny really wanted to get away with it ?
What if , and here 's where it gets tricky .
What if they 'd started killing hostages ?
No mercy , no quarter , meet our demands or the cute blonde in the bell bottoms gets one in the back of the head , bam , splatter .
What ?
Still no bus ?
How many innocent victims would they let get sprayed across the windows before the city reversed its policy on hostage situations ?
And this was 1976 .
No C.N.N. , no C.N.B.C. , no M.T.V. No Internet .
Fast forward to the present , same situation .
Can you imagine the feeding frenzy of the modern media ?
In hours it would be the top story from Boston to Budapest .
All caught in 150 millimeter zoom , computer enhanced , and color corrected .
You would practically taste the brain matter .
Six hostages die .
Ten .
Twelve .
Twenty .
Thirty .
Relentless .
One after another .
All over a bus , a plane , and a couple of million dollars that were federally insured .
He sits , letting the pictures sink in , then :
Just a thought .
I mean it 's not really within the realm of conventional cinema , but what if ?
You know , this movie of yours , I do n't think it would have worked .
Really ?
How come ?
-LRB- shrugs . -RRB-
Audiences love happy endings .
Pacino escapes .
With the money .
Boyfriend gets the sex change operation .
They live happily ever after .
Stanley shakes his head .
No ?
No .
Homophobia ?
Stanley shakes his head .
Bad guy ca n't win .
It 's a morality tale .
One way or the other , he 's got ta go down .
Oh , well .
Life does tend to be stranger than fiction .
-LRB- looking at watch . -RRB-
Well , guys , got ta jet .
This place is kinda dead .
CAMERA PANS AROUND the coffee shop .
Not a soul in the place .
We CONTINUE TO PAN AROUND 270 DEGREES TO the front door , which is open .
Outside the open doorway are crouched a squad of heavily body-armored SWAT members , packed together , and aiming automatic weapons inside .
ANGLE ON GABRIEL
Thanks for the coffee .
He gets up .
In his left hand , which has been hidden by the table until now , he is holding a strange-looking spring-loaded grip .
Gabriel is looking back at them .
Smiles .
Rene Descartes is sitting in some bar in Paris .
Bartender says , ` Hey , you want another drink ? '
Descartes says , ' I think not . '
And disappears .
He smiles at his own joke , then turns and walks over to the front door .
Move .
No one even twitches .
I wo n't ask again .
He lifts up the device in his left hand .
ANGLE ON ROBERTS who nods his head .
The SWAT team moves back , letting Gabriel out of the coffee shop .
Thank you .
Gabriel looks back at Stan sitting in the booth .
Stanley .
you coming ?
Stan slides from the booth as Gabriel exits the coffee shop -
SILENCE -- no sounds on the SOUNDTRACK .
Gabriel and Stanley stop just outside the doorway .
Gabriel dons a pair of hip little shades , then continues across the sidewalk and into the street .
He nonchalantly looks up .
Suddenly the THUMP of HELICOPTERS and the WAIL of SIRENS dominates the soundtrack .
Pandemonium .
HELICOPTERS RIP the sky , L.A. County PD and a bunch of news vultures .
Squad cars block off both ends of the street while SWAT trucks , news vans , and lookyloos are packed together into the distance .
Sharpshooters lean out of windows and snipers are positioned on every open rooftop .
Hundreds of weapons are pointed at this man who saunters across the street as if he 's on his way to Sunday service , without a care in the world .
Slowly , Stanley follows Gabriel into the street .
Gabriel steps up on the far sidewalk , a huge armored bus blocks most of the windows .
He walks beside the bus , under a huge `` WORLD BANC '' sign , and through the glass front door , which shuts IN OUR FACE .
He turns away from the window and we FOLLOW him .
The interior of the bank looks like New Orleans on Fat Tuesday .
Three Hummers sit in the middle of the floor , surrounded by broken glass .
Between them rests a bright red Ferrari F50 -LRB- Gabriel 's -RRB- .
All but one of the front windows of the bank , the one with the door in it , has been welded over with 3/4 inch plate steel .
Over two dozen hostages lie face down on the floor , arms cable-tied behind their backs .
Something has been ducttaped around their chests and each is wearing what appears to be a dog collar .
The other occupants of the room are nine men .
All of whom would look as if they were attending the fashion event of the year were it not for the automatic weapons each one carries .
How we doin ' ?
One of the ARMED MEN finishes putting a collar on a young , normally good-looking-but-now-covered-in-mascara , whimpering blonde girl .
-LRB- ARMED MAN . -RRB-
Done .
Good .
Take her out .
SUPERIMPOSE : FRIDAY , OCTOBER 18 8:41:22 .
The front door opens and one of the suited men drags out the pretty blonde from earlier .
She is sobbing and is in such grief she ca n't even walk .
On the sidewalk , the suited man , his automatic weapon slung , holds her up for everyone to see .
Gabriel grabs his cell and dials .
Roberts sits in the Starbucks which has been transformed into a high-tech command center reading a newspaper .
We can not see the headlines .
Federal and state officers scramble around handling problems .
The PHONE RINGS .
Assistant Director Bill Joy -LRB- A.D. JOY -RRB- , an older-looking guy who looks more like an accountant than an assistant director of the FBI , is handed the phone .
Is everyone in position ?
Almost , sir .
-LRB- looks up from paper . -RRB-
What are you doing ?
We PAN AROUND .
-LRB- to SWAT LEADER . -RRB-
Get her at your first opportunity .
-LRB- into mike . -RRB-
High ground one and two .
You have a green light .
I 've seen what this man is capable of -
The F.B.I. does not negotiate with terrorists .
I assumed you 'd be aware of that .
-LRB- answering phone . -RRB-
Joy .
Roberts picks up an extension .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
Do n't talk , listen .
When I made my Dog Day Afternoon analogy , I was not speaking metaphorically .
We have 22 hostages .
Each has been wrapped with 20 pounds of C-four explosives .
SWAT guys making their way to the roof of the bank .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
On top of that we have taped 15 pounds of stainless steel ball bearings -
-- making them the world 's largest walking Claymore mines .
aiming down at Gabriel 's merc .
The merc is holding up the weeping girl so everyone can see what Gabriel is talking about .
Unbeknownst to him , red laser aiming dots appear on Gab 's merc 's chest .
Stanley is being held by two of the well-dressed men .
CLOSEUP ON GABRIEL
Around her neck is a radiofrequency electronic dog collar -
Roberts stops short as he hears this .
He and Joy both look at each other .
Dog walks out of his yard , he gets the shit shocked out of him .
Hearing this , Roberts stands back up .
Stop them -
In SLOW MOTION , A.D. Joy jumps for his radio .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
Same thing -
-- their yard is this bank .
So , do n't fuck with me .
SWAT members move into position along the peripheral .
The merc turns toward them .
The momentum swings his shouldered weapon upward in SLOW MOTION .
-LRB- into mike . -RRB-
Hold your -
The SWAT snipers take this weapon movement as an aggressive act and FIRE into the merc , the BULLETS RIPPING into him .
He drops .
A SWAT-armored vehicle rushes in -- one of the team jumps out , in an attempt to rescue the woman .
No !
Noooo !
Hysterical , the hostage runs back toward the bank , confusing the SWAT guy trying to rescue her .
He reaches for her but she fights him .
Finally , he grabs her around the waist and carries her on his shoulder into the street as she screams toward the bank for help .
CLOSEUP - HIS FOOT -LRB- SLOW MOTION -RRB- as he steps off the sidewalk .
ANGLE ON GIRL -LRB- SLOW MOTION -RRB- She is screaming nooooo !
CLOSEUP - HIS FOOT -LRB- SLOW MOTION -RRB- as it continues its stride .
CLOSEUP - RADIO DOG COLLAR -LRB- SLOW MOTION -RRB- Around her neck .
The green light blinks to red .
BEEP .
NORMAL SPEED .
KABOOM !
BALL BEARINGS RICOCHET against the plate steel of the bank .
The ball bearings bounce across the street and tap against the coffee shop .
Everyone in the coffee shop looks at each other like , `` What just happened ? ''
As ball bearings roll back into the street .
FADE TO BLACK .
SUPERIMPOSE : 3 DAYS EARLIER AXL TORVALDS enters customs .
A thirty-something European who could easily pass for a season regular on `` Sprockets . ''
We PULL BACK .
Torvalds is watching anxiously as his bags are torn into like Christmas day at the Griswalds .
The two CUSTOMS AGENTS eye his three laptops suspiciously .
-LRB- heavy Finnish accent . -RRB-
Please be careful -
-- one of the Agents cuts off his plea with a glance .
-LRB- to himself , almost inaudibly . -RRB-
-- that equipment is quite expensive .
Torvalds is wary of time .
After several moments his bags are being repacked when another passport is found .
The customs official holds up two passports .
ANOTHER CUSTOMS OFFICIAL takes them and walks over to Torvalds .
Mr. Torvalds .
Could you step over here , please .
Torvalds glances at his watch .
1:45 PM .
How long am I going to be delayed ?
It 'll be just a moment .
Torvalds stands to the side , while two customs officials compare his passports .
They step over to a computer terminal and punch in some data .
It 's 1:50 PM .
Torvalds notices a customs department employee wheeling a cart of confiscated items out of a nearby service elevator .
He pushes the cart out of the oversized elevator .
Torvalds shoots a glance back to the two officials discussing his situation .
Torvalds casually picks up his computer case and coolly walks over to the elevator .
Torvalds walks in just as the doors close .
The customs officials conferring look around .
Torvalds is gone .
One of them looks up and sees the numbers changing above the elevator .
The customs officials race up to the escalator to the -
Torvalds exits the elevator -- and coolly makes his way to the pedestrian walkway .
He 's halfway across it , when -- multiple security teams appear and converge on him from both ends .
He 's finally wrestled to the ground .
-LRB- flipping a badge in Torvalds ' face . -RRB-
Axl Torvalds .
You are under arrest .
SENATOR JAMES REISMAN -- R. -LRB- Georgia -RRB- strides confidently into a small , windowless boardroom .
This better be important , you pulled me out of session .
DARWIN KAPLAN , the President 's aide and one of the four men in the room , definitely the most intense , smiles thinly .
Senator , I would n't have asked you to come here if it was n't .
The Senator starts to sit down .
Kaplan turns toward the Senator .
Senator , we just received a communication that Axl Torvalds was intercepted entering the continental U.S.
When ?
Within the last two hours .
According to our source inside the F.B.I. , he was nabbed coming through customs at L.A.X. Alone .
Do they know who they are dealing with ?
It is unlikely , sir .
It was a routine check and Torvalds freaked out .
They just got lucky .
This ai n't good , boys .
The Vortex has used Torvalds before .
What do the feds know ?
Nothing as of yet .
He 's refusing to speak English and the Finnish consulate has already contacted the State Department .
So we have n't been compromised ?
We 're not sure .
We 're working on that right now .
You better get sure real quick , son , 'cause someone 's cock 's liable to end up on the block on this one .
And I promise you it wo n't be mine .
Senator , I think we 'll be okay here -
I do n't fucking pay you to think , Kaplan .
I pay you to keep me informed .
I know the Vortex .
That 's why I voted against using him on American soil .
It 's like using the Ebola virus to cure a cancer patient .
Son , what do you think 's going to happen if he starts tying up loose ends .
They look at each other .
Yessir .
I understand .
We are indeed in the middle of nowhere , no nothing as far as you can see .
We CONTINUE TO CRANE UP , a $ 140,000 Ferrari Modena flies down the road in a cloud of suspended gravel toward Stanley 's dilapidated , piece-o'crap trailer .
Stan stands on the roof of his trailer , which was a dilapidated shack in the 1950s and now is a lot worse .
A chained but scruffy-looking Rottweiler runs around in front of the trailer .
Stan looks completely different than he did in the opening sequence .
He has n't taken very good care of himself .
His hair is long , and right now standing on end .
He is wearing nothing but a dirty towel , and is slicing golf balls off the roof .
Whack .
As the Ferrari drives up he begins hitting golf balls at it , but he just is n't very good .
Nevertheless , after a dozen bad hits , a lucky shot ricochets off the aluminum hood .
CLOSEUP - FERRARI HOOD CLANG !
BACK TO SCENE Stan smiles as the car slides to a halt in the gravel driveway , and turns back to his `` work . ''
ANGLE ON STANLEY As we hear the DOOR SHUT and SOMEONE COMES UP the aluminum extension ladder .
A few moments later , in SLOW MOTION , GINGER appears at the top of the ladder and steps onto the trailer 's roof .
Stan turns around .
She is what the hack writers of the Thirties would call a vision .
Thesauruses could be exhausted searching for adjectives that do her justice .
In the low-rent light of Stanley 's white trash haven , she is , by definition , a goddess .
Who are you supposed to be ?
WHACK -LRB- slice -RRB- .
She lights a cigarette , inhales deeply , then exhales .
Hello , Stanley .
She knows his name .
I 'm Ginger .
Is that right ?
WHACK -LRB- slice -RRB- .
For someone the N.S.A. has listed as the most dangerous hacker in America , you sure do n't look like much .
WHACK -LRB- slice -RRB- .
Do n't look so surprised .
I know everything there is to know about you , Stan .
From your mom 's maiden name to how big your .
She glances downward then back up .
Bank account is .
How 'd you get past my dog ?
-LRB- cute . -RRB-
Boys like me .
Great .
What are you selling again ?
WHACK -LRB- slice -RRB- .
Did I say I was selling something ?
I 'm here to help you , Stan .
Look at you , you 're a mess .
WHACK -LRB- slice -RRB- .
My employer wants to meet you .
WHACK -LRB- slice -RRB- .
You 're not very good at this , are you ?
You 're fucking up my chi .
Can I see that ?
Begrudgingly he hands her the club .
She tees up a ball , pulls up her skirt far enough to reveal thong , and whack , hits a ball that Tiger Woods would envy .
CLANG .
She smiles , hands him the club back and pulls down her skirt .
You need to straighten your left arm .
You 're bending it .
He looks at her .
Trust me .
He does and the ball goes flying 200 yards , perfect , whacking a fridge with `` 200 YARDS '' painted on it .
CLANG !
Stan looks at the club , then tosses it to the ground , climbing back down an aluminum extension ladder that leads up through a makeshift hatch on the roof .
She follows but Stan ignores her and walks into his bedroom .
She walks over , opens , and reaches into the fridge -
This is not a nice place you have here , Stanley .
-- and pulls out a beer -
I 've only been here a few minutes and I 'm already starting to feel sorry for myself .
She walks into :
Stan walks back in , looking for semi-clean clothes .
You 're wasting your time .
I even touch a computer , I go straight to Leavenworth , do not pass go , do not collect 200 dollars .
Whatever I was .
Stanley , pulling on his pants , lets the sentence hang , unfinished .
He 's putting on his shoes .
She squats down in front of him , resting her hand on his leg .
Stanley , think about it , they still teach your techniques at M.I.T.
She smiles up at him , then takes a long drink of her beer .
Stan stares at her a moment , then .
I 'm not here to suck your dick , Stanley , you can sit around doing the martyr thing as long as you like .
He 'll pay you just to meet you .
-LRB- smiles . -RRB-
I got ta go to work .
Oh that 's right , and fine work it is , too .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
Stanley .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
Have you spoken to Holly lately ?
She just dropped a 20 megaton thermonuclear warhead into Stanley 's universe .
Stanley practically pitches her down the steps of his trailer and slams the door .
Shit .
A TELEPHONE RINGS in a multi-zillion dollar Malibu beach house .
A WOMAN , late twenties , grabs the receiver .
Her voice is of perfect timbre and accentless .
-LRB- WOMAN . -RRB-
Hello .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
Melissa .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
Holly home ?
-LRB- New York starts to invade her accentless accent . -RRB-
Stanley .
Why are you calling here ?
on phone .
He stands in front of his now closed fridge .
It is covered with pictures of his daughter , Holly .
I want to talk with Holly .
INTERCUT BETWEEN the two .
Melissa 's accent continues to travel eastward from Midwest flat to full tilt Long Island .
It 's .
-LRB- looks at her watch . -RRB-
It 's twelve-thirty , Stanley .
She 's in school .
You know it 's illegal for you to talk to her .
Do n't do this , Mel .
It 's not good for Holly -
How the hell would you know what is or is n't good for my daughter ?
You 've spent the last two years in prison .
Mel -
Stop calling me that , Stanley .
I just want to see my baby .
Well , she does n't want to see you , Stanley , and I swear to fucking God , if you contact her , I 'll have Larry 's attorney throw you into a hole so deep and dark it 'll make Leavenworth seem like two weeks in Vegas ; during which I 'll personally pay two ball-busting skin-heads to -
Wow , Mel , you can take the girl out of the trailer park , but you ca n't take the trailer park out of the girl .
She regains control .
Her voice is accentless once again .
-LRB- exhaling . -RRB-
I will not let myself be manipulated by you , Stanley .
Larry 's her father now .
Larry 's the porn king -
Larry 's a film financier , a good husband , and an astute businessman .
What films he 's involved in are a function of profitability and none of your business .
She is now downright icy .
Get help , Stanley , get into a program , get a therapist , get a dog , but whatever you do , stay away from my child .
Your child ?
She 's our child .
She will never be your child .
You 'll never have the kind of money to match Larry 's lawyers in court .
Forget Holly .
CLICK .
The PHONE GOES DEAD .
Stanley freaks , beats the receiver against the fridge , again , and again .
Then , he calmly hangs up the phone .
Stanley walks down the steps of his trailer .
Ginger sits on the hood of her car in all her estrogenic glory , smoking and petting Stan 's dog .
What are you doing here ?
Stanley 's dog leans against her , happy .
-LRB- to dog , like `` traitor '' . -RRB-
Judas .
Hello , Stanley .
She smiles at him .
He smiles back , about ready to stick her in the trunk of her car .
Look , I 'm beginning to lose my sense of humor about -
Let 's cut through the bullshit , Stan .
If you ever want to have a chance in hell of getting your daughter back you 'll shut up and listen .
Unless of course you want to stay here in your pathetic , loser life while she learns what it 's like to be a fluffer in one of her new daddy 's videos .
Do me the courtesy of not confusing your own childhood with my daughter 's .
Look at your situation , Stanley .
For twenty months you 've been in court six times , each time your custody case has been thrown out .
Your situation does n't look good , sweetheart .
She blows smoke at him , thinking , then whips out her trump card .
How much would it cost to retain the best family lawyer in the country and regain custody of your daughter ?
All the way through the jury trial ?
Yeah .
A lot .
She pulls out a large manila envelope .
Opens it and dumps the rubber-banded stacks of hundreds onto the ground .
This should get you started .
Stanley just stares at the money .
He looks up at Ginger .
Whattaya have to lose ?
Just meet him .
One time .
That 's it .
You do n't like the setup , walk away .
That 's it ?
That 's it .
And you keep the money .
She smokes , letting it all sink in .
She puts out her cigarette .
They just stare at each other .
She smiles .
FADE TO BLACK .
Torvalds sits at a table in a room with a two-way mirror .
To his left , a three-piece suited Euroweasel -LRB- obviously his LAWYER -RRB- nurses a steaming cup of coffee while providing air cover from the two interrogating FBI Agents .
The table is covered with empty coffee cups and cigarette carcasses .
Roberts eases quietly into the room in midinterrogation .
Torvalds says something in Finnish to his Lawyer .
What did he say ?
Torvalds again speaks to his Lawyer in Finnish .
Your client is wanted on 24 counts of electronic crimes in seven different countries -
Finland does not recognize these allegations as crimes .
Your laws -
Do you see a Finnish flag hanging on the wall , Ikea boy ?
Torvalds speaks to his Lawyer .
What did he say ?
He said Ikea is Swedish .
He understands English ?
The FBI Agent 's head is now close to imploding .
Okay .
Guys , why do n't you give me a few minutes here ?
They turn to see Roberts smiling .
Uh , sir .
It 's okay .
Just a couple of minutes .
Yessir .
You 've fucked up now , Hamlet .
-LRB- never taking his eyes off Torvalds . -RRB-
And Michaels .
Yessir .
Hamlet was a Dane .
Adane ?
Forget it .
Roberts sits down in a chair facing Torvalds .
He stares at him a moment , just smiling , then .
Why would the number one cracker in the world risk life imprisonment to enter the continental U.S ?
My client has repeatedly reserved his right not answer any questions at this time .
Torvalds looks at Roberts ' badge and says something in Finnish , the only recognizable word being `` Roberts . ''
The attorney and Torvalds both laugh .
Roberts looks at the attorney .
He told me to tell Mister Roberts that he is quite fond of ` The X-Files . '
Again they smile .
Roberts looks at the lawyer 's cup of steaming coffee and with one finger pushes it over into the lawyer 's lap .
You need another cup of coffee -
-LRB- jumping up in great pain . -RRB-
Goddammit !
Roberts grabs him by the collar and slams him into the wall , then pushes him out the door with a kick in the ass .
He grabs the briefcase and tosses it out after him and locks the door .
He turns on Torvalds , smacking him across the face .
He pushes him into the wall and holds his badge in front of him .
Until a year ago I was head of the largest task force on cybercriminals in the entire world .
But , I burned out .
It happens .
I snapped .
I shot a suspect in the fucking hand .
Accident .
Do you know how hard it is to work a keyboard with one hand ?
Whatever you can do to me , he can do worse .
I 'm already dead .
The only place I stand a chance is back in my country .
I have friends there .
I tell you what , you tell me what I want to know and I guarantee you 'll be on the next flight to Finland .
First class .
Courtesy of the U.S. Government .
Torvalds thinks quietly .
Two FBI agents -LRB- BAD AGENTS # 1 & 2 -RRB- watch the interrogation through a two-way mirror .
One of the agents looks surprisingly like Gabriel 's merc that carried the young blonde girl killed outside the bank earlier .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
-LRB- over speaker . -RRB-
I 'll tell you what I know .
The Agents look at each other .
Bad Agent # 1 dials his cell phone .
-LRB- into his cell . -RRB-
Yes , this is Assistant Director Joy , would you find Agent Roberts .
It 's important that I speak with him as soon as possible .
Thank you .
Who is he ?
A yellow Lamborghini Diablo drives up .
In SLOW MOTION Gabriel steps out of the car , wind whipping his fulllength , black Gucci overcoat .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
He exists in a world beyond your world .
What we only fantasize , he does .
He lives a life where nothing is beyond him .
But it is all an act .
Gabriel walks through the crowd as if a celebrity -
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
For all his charisma and charm .
For all his wealth and expensive toys .
-- exchanging kisses and the lingering of hands , as he slides through parting seas of beautiful people .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
Beneath it all he is a driven , unflinching , calculating machine , who takes what he wants , when he wants , then disappears -
-- It works like this .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
I fly to where I am to meet him .
He sends one of his people to meet me .
A BOEING 777 SCREAMS overhead .
We TILT DOWN .
Stanley and Ginger walk out of LAX .
A white LIMO IDLES directly in front of them .
Stanley is wearing a black T-shirt which proclaims in large white letters across his chest , in true Scarlet Letter fashion , `` LOSER ! ''
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
He tells me what he needs .
I do my job , I 'm paid .
Upstairs on a lavish balcony Gabriel looks at the crowd .
PUSH INTO - CLOSEUP - GABRIEL smiling .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
And I leave .
That 's a real nice story .
But you have n't given me shit .
Torvalds knows this and smiles at Roberts arrogantly .
The door opens , an FBI AGENT sticks his head in .
Excuse me , sir .
you have a call .
So , take a message .
It 's Assistant Director Joy , he said it 's important .
At least it 's not my wife .
-LRB- to Torvalds . -RRB-
You need to think about what else you know .
-LRB- then , to Agent # 1 . -RRB-
Watch him .
Roberts walks out of the room .
The FBI Agent positions himself outside the door .
Roberts walks out of the room .
Torvalds ' attorney is there .
You will be hearing from my gover -
Shut up .
Roberts walks down the hall .
The attorney , pissed , walks back into the interrogation room .
One of the two Agents watches the door , the other , Bad Agent # 2 steps over to the two-way mirror .
Torvalds talks to his attorney in Finnish .
Apparently his attorney is trying to convince him of something .
Torvalds , unfazed , walks over to the one-way mirror .
PULL BACK FROM Torvalds to reveal Bad Agent # 2 calmly screwing a silencer on to his .45 .
Torvalds leans closer to the glass .
Bad Agent # 2 sticks the silenced barrel of the gun up against the glass -- right between the eyes of Torvalds .
Bad Agent # 2 moves the barrel up and down between Torvalds face and neck .
Torvalds looks smugly into the glass .
He lifts his hand , holding up his middle finger .
Bad Agent # 2 moves his aim to Torvalds ' tonsils .
He depresses the trigger slightly .
Torvalds , middle finger in the air , smiles .
Unbeknownst to him however , a tiny red aiming laser has zipped through the glass and is now positioned as a dot on Torvalds ' throat .
Satisfied with the placement he PULLS the TRIGGER .
THUMP !
THUMP !
THUMP !
THUMP !
Roberts walks down the hall and turns right into -
Roberts picks up the phone .
This is Roberts , I have a call from A.D. Joy .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
Hold , sir .
Finally -
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
Joy .
Roberts .
You needed me .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
What do you mean ?
You did n't call me ?
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
You just called me .
Realization slowly hits him , he drops the phone and runs from the room .
Roberts runs down the hall and into :
Roberts finds Torvalds and his attorney dead .
Roberts looks into the mirror .
Six clean bullet holes perforate his reflection .
Shit !
A huge , lavish , converted theater in downtown Los Angeles .
A 21st Century version of 54 on equal overdoses of steroids and acid .
Stanley and Ginger walk into a large area with individual private booths in small rooms around the perimeter .
The rooms have the ability to be closed off by drawing huge , thick velvet drapes .
I wish you 'd let me buy you a suit .
I 'm happy with what I 'm wearing .
You have no self-esteem , Stanley .
-LRB- dryly . -RRB-
I know .
They walk into one of the booths in the back .
Sitting around a large , oval table is our antihero , Gabriel Shear , surrounded by a handful of his crew and a gaggle of beautiful model-types .
Ginger kisses Gabriel and with a healthy exchange of fluids , then .
Miss me ?
Gabriel smiles , then looks back at Stanley .
Gabriel , Stanley .
Stanley , Gabriel .
Gabriel just stares .
-LRB- very familiar . -RRB-
Big Stan .
Nice suit .
Thanks .
You know , they say it 's the clothes that make the man .
You buy it ?
Hope not .
-LRB- then . -RRB-
Buy you a drink ?
I flew fifteen hundred miles for this meeting , how ` bout we get to the point .
Actually you flew 1500 miles for 100 grand .
But that 's not the point .
Stanley sits down .
Gabriel pours Stan a glass of Crown .
I heard this story about this young hacker who made a virus that broke the F.B.I. 's Carnivore program that was actively reading every subscriber 's E-mail and scrambled the systems .
He did what the federal judges would n't do and kept the government out of our Privacy .
I think I heard that .
Story is he went to jail and the federal Carnivore program is back in full swing .
It was a real tragedy .
What can I do for you ?
Changing the subject .
Stanley , meet Helga .
Gabriel smiles .
The beautiful WOMAN to Stanley 's right slides closer .
-LRB- WOMAN . -RRB-
-LRB- heavily accented . -RRB-
Hi , Stanley .
Stanley looks at her , she 's a knockout ; artificially perfect .
He looks back at Gabriel .
Look , I do n't have a lot of patience for this -
Stanley , we have a problem , maybe you can help us out .
Stan looks around ; everyone is smiling .
Helga moves closer to him .
Take a look at this .
He is handed an open laptop , it glows .
He sets it on the table and spins it around in front of Stanley .
-LRB- like an alcoholic faced with a fifth of tequila . -RRB-
You know I ca n't touch that .
Helga pours a shot of tequila .
You like tequila , Stanley ?
Helga shoots the tequila , then turns to Stanley , places her lips against his .
The gold liquid drips from their lips as she spits it into Stanley 's mouth .
He pushes her away , breaking the liplock , and swallowing the tequila .
She licks it from his face .
No need for modesty , we 're all friends here , Stanley .
This is bullshit .
I came -
You want something from me , amigo , I want something from you .
D.O.D. dBase , 128 bit R.S.A. encryption .
Whattaya think ?
Impossible ?
Stanley 's having a little trouble concentrating on Gabriel .
Nothing 's impossible .
Helga begins sucking on Stanley 's fingers .
He pulls them away .
So it can be done ?
Maybe slide in a Trojan horse hiding a worm ?
Something like that .
Is this an interview ?
Sort of .
Marco , let 's give him some incentive .
The drapes close .
Two of Gabriel 's crew step out .
Marco yanks out a .40 caliber Glock and quickly screws a wellused silencer onto the end .
Marco walks around behind Stanley .
-LRB- now totally confused . -RRB-
What are you doing ?
Helga smiles , then drops her head into Stanley 's lap .
We hear his PANTS UNZIP .
Relax , Stanley .
He has to go with it .
I 've been told the best crackers in the world could do this in sixty minutes .
Unfortunately , I need someone who can do it in sixty seconds .
You 're kidding .
` Fraid not .
Stan realizes now no one is smiling .
He grabs the blonde by the hair but ca n't pull her up .
Forty-five seconds .
Time is a wasting , big guy .
The silencer is pressed into the back of his head .
Stanley tries to focus on the screen .
Stanley sucks air through his teeth , trying to focus .
You have thirty seconds , Stanley .
Stanley gives up on trying to get her up and his hands start flying over the keyboard .
We INTERCUT the ACTION WITH a CLOSEUP of Stanley 's hands working the keyboard , and a CLOSEUP of Gabriel , and a CLOSEUP of the LCD screen which reads in flashing red letters - `` ACCESS DENIED . ''
She 's very good , is n't she , Stanley ?
Tension builds as Stanley continues to work the keyboard .
`` ACCESS DENIED . ''
C'mon , Stanley .
20 seconds .
`` ACCESS DENIED . ''
Fifteen .
`` ACCESS DENIED . ''
Ten .
Nine .
Faster and faster .
`` ACCESS DENIED . ''
Three .
Two .
`` ACCESS DENIED . ''
He grabs her head .
She does n't come up .
The screen flashes : `` ACCESS DENIED . ''
Too bad , Stanley .
Ya got ta die .
Marco puts the silencer to his eye .
Wait !
CLICK .
The GUN is empty .
Stanley tries to catch his breath .
Helga lifts up her head .
Everyone laughs .
Gabriel walks around the table .
I was just fucking with you , Stan .
Stanley is pissed .
Helga , smiling , kisses him on the cheek .
Stanley tries to calm down .
He gets up , shoots someone 's half-drank drink , zips his pants , then -
So was I.
Stanley hits the enter key and spins the computer around .
CLOSEUP - COMPUTER SCREEN `` ACCESS GRANTED '' appears , and the Department of Defense logo scrolls across the screen .
WIDER Stanley gives them all a `` fuck you '' smile , then stomps out through the curtain .
CLOSEUP ON GABRIEL who smiles .
Stanley pushes into the bathroom .
He kicks the wastebasket across the room .
Shit !
He pushes a club kid out of the way of the sink .
He turns on the water and washes his face .
Slowly he leans his forehead against the mirror .
Ginger appears behind him .
What are you looking at ?
Relax , Stanley .
You can do this .
Get away from me .
I want to help you .
Help ?
Help what , squeegee my brain off the ceiling ?
It was just a test , Stan , you passed .
Ginger pulls out a cigarette and a lighter from her plastic overcoat .
A test .
I do n't know why I let you talk me into this .
I ca n't believe how desperate I am .
She exhales toward Stanley .
I thought you were here saving your daughter , Stanley .
He turns around .
-LRB- pissed . -RRB-
Look .
I 'd do anything to get Holly back .
But , if I end up in a box or back in jail , then I really ca n't help her , can I ?
What I should do , is take my money and go back to court .
Back to court ?
Back to Melissa 's gladiators ?
You throw a hundred grand at her , she 'll throw five back at you .
It 's not about Holly , it 's about beating you .
You know that .
Think , Stanley .
What I 'm thinking about is that you 're willing to put a gun to my head to see if I can hack -
Suddenly three club kids come busting into the bathroom .
Ginger interrupts him by slamming Stan between the urinals and ramming her tongue into his mouth with the kind of wet , aggressive action that takes a movie from PG-13 to an R .
When the kids realize that the urinals are occupied , they leave .
Slowly Ginger takes her tongue out of Stan 's mouth .
They look at each other .
She smiles at him .
-LRB- coyly . -RRB-
Sorry .
A beat , for a moment there exists something between them , then bam , she 's all business again .
So , let me sum it up for you , Stanley .
You live in a trailer .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
You 're a felon , working a deadend job .
You want to get Holly back , Gabriel 's your only shot .
ANGLE ON STANLEY As he realizes she 's right , he 's got nothing to lose .
Slam !
He smacks the mirror with his fist , then walks out of the rest room .
Ginger slowly lifts the cigarette .
She exhales , then slowly smiles .
She 's got him .
Next to the valet stand , Gabriel leans over the hood of an evil-looking , bright-yellow Lamborghini Diablo Roadster , a GAMEBOY CHIRPING in his hands .
Stanley walks INTO the FRAME .
Without missing a beat , Gabriel looks up -
Big Stan .
I was afraid we lost you .
Gabriel stands up and walks toward Stan .
Tell me what the deal is .
Let 's go up to the house .
I 'm having a little get-together .
I 'll explain it to you there .
Gabriel smiles .
Three GEEKY COMPUTER-TYPES sit in front of a huge array of CRTs .
They look up when Roberts stalks into the room .
He yanks off his jacket , crumbles it and throws it across the room .
They just look at each other .
Tell me you have some good news for me .
Actually we have a small ray of hope in the vast darkness that is your life , sir .
Check this out .
On one of the 25-inch screens we see a terminal at LAX with hundreds of people streaming by at 20x speed .
Torvalds is being apprehended .
He freezes it .
See these two guys ?
He points at two men watching this action from the sideline .
He pulls another monitor forward .
Now watch this .
He fast-forwards through the crowd until the two guys show up again .
He freezes it .
Recognize those two , same guys , next day .
Question is -
He slowly moves the action forward -
-- who 's that ?
The footage stops and zooms in on one of two travelers who the two men are meeting .
It is Stanley .
Stanley Jobson .
The computer guys look at each other .
One hands Roberts an open copy of Wired magazine .
Wired 's man of the year , 1996 .
Pretty much a burnout but he was the hacker zeitgeist of his day -
I know who Jobson is .
I busted him .
-LRB- to Stan 's image . -RRB-
Why are you in L.A ?
Roberts looks at it .
Then at the screen .
A pop-up screen shows Stanley 's history .
His ex-wife lives in Malibu .
The new husband owns Backdoor Films , a shady porn production house in Chatsworth .
Decent production value but they only shoot on video .
His wife actually starred in a couple of his videos .
Apparently she 's an ` actress . '
Roberts moves the mouse to see Ginger .
Who 's the chick ?
We do n't know yet , sir .
Serious piece of talent .
Way outta his league .
Something 's up .
You know he also has a ten-yearold daughter , who he 's not supposed to see .
Maybe that 's why he 's here .
Roberts looks at him like he 's an idiot .
Or maybe not .
I want to know who that girl is .
Pronto .
Roberts stands .
And stake out his daughter .
The house is at the very top of the hills and the pool hangs off the side of the cliff , way below the house .
The outer edge appears nonexistent , like the water hangs frozen in air .
A very hip but very nasty soiree is in progress .
More Ibiza than Hollywood Hills .
Stanley sits in a chair beside a pool containing a halfdozen beautiful un-clad model-types .
Gabriel is mingling through the crowd .
CLOSEUP - STANLEY Stanley stares off into the glittering lights of L.A. WIDEN .
-LRB- smiles . -RRB-
So Stan , tell me .
How 'd you do it ?
Do what ?
Break the code .
At the club .
You broke the entire encryption , a silencer against your eye and your cock in someone 's mouth , all in less than sixty seconds .
How ?
I used a logic bomb , dropped it through the trap door -
No , you did n't .
You did n't have time .
C'mon , you can do better than that .
How 'd you do it ?
I used a password sniffer .
Gabriel glances at Ginger who shakes her head .
Uh uh .
Yes , I did -
C'mon , Stanley .
How 'd - you-do-it ?
I do n't know exactly .
I see the numbers .
In my head .
All my life .
I do n't answer equations , I just see the answers .
Same with code .
I ca n't explain --
Ginger eases over to where Stan is sitting .
She runs her hands across his shoulders as she moves around him , dancing to the MUSIC .
Mozart always said he did n't write music ; he just wrote down what he heard in his head .
So did Faulkner , just with words .
-LRB- drinking wine . -RRB-
You definitely have a gift , Stan .
The most powerful people on the planet are like you .
With a laptop and a phone line you can make God look like a thirteen-year-old with a stack of Playboys and a lack of imagination .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
C'mere , Stan , let me show you something .
Stanley and Gabriel stand in Gabriel 's primo designed pad , staring at an array of supercomputers .
Stanley stands in front of the six huge flat panels , linked together , in complete awe .
Pretty impressive , huh .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
So .
So ?
Here 's the deal .
I need a worm , Stanley .
A hydra , actually .
A multi-headed worm to break an encryption and then sniff out latent digital footprints throughout an encrypted network .
What kind of cypher ?
Vernam encryption .
A Vernam 's impossible .
Its key code is destroyed upon implementation .
Not to mention being a true 128 bit encryption .
Actually , we 're talking 512 bit .
It 's impossible .
Tell ya what , I 'll pay you ten million dollars .
That should be enough to get your daughter back .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
.
unless of course it 's impossible .
Stan thinks about it .
Nothing 's impossible .
They shake hands and Gabriel heads toward the back of the house .
LONG SHOT - GABRIEL walking up the stairs toward his room .
Stan looks over to see Ginger staring at him .
What ?
Ginger pulls herself up on the desk , spreading her legs on either side of the keyboard .
C'mon , Stan .
Let 's get to work .
She turns on the computers .
He backs away .
It wo n't bite you , I promise .
I do n't know .
It 's gon na be pretty hard without a gun to my head .
She reaches out and pulls him to her .
Well , let 's put a gun to your head .
She kisses him and slowly he responds .
She smiles .
Tell me about your worm , Stanley .
They kiss .
You surprised that a girl with real breasts and an I.Q. over 70 can give you a hard-on ?
Stan shakes his head .
I thought you were Gabriel 's .
She looks at him a moment .
She smiles at him and slowly bends forward to whisper in his ear .
CLOSEUP - GINGER 'S MOUTH at Stanley 's ear .
-LRB- very slowly . -RRB-
I am not what you think I am .
ANGLE ON GINGER AND STANLEY As she leans back .
She stares at him a moment then slides off the desk .
You 're a smart guy , Stanley .
You figure me out .
She hands him the bottle of expensive wine she 's been drinking , and then grabbing Stan by the belt-buckle , pulls him casually behind her toward the pool house .
FADE TO BLACK .
Lounging by the pool is none other than our heroine , Ginger , topless , wearing nothing more than tiny , oblong , green-tinted shades , a skimpy T-back , and a little silver ring through her left nipple .
She 's reading Steven Hawkings ' A Brief History of Time .
A shadow falls over her .
The shadow moves .
Ginger glances nonchalantly up , then :
-LRB- sitting up , grinning . -RRB-
Do n't you have that just-fuckedthe-neighbor 's - cat look this morning .
She reaches over , lights a cigarette , and inhales deeply .
He smiles , looking her up and down .
Problem ?
Pretty impressive .
I thought we went over all that last night .
-LRB- beat , then like `` stupid '' . -RRB-
The book , Ginger .
Ohhh .
-LRB- holding it out . -RRB-
Look , no pictures .
Get out of my light .
They stare at each sharing a moment of God-only-knowswhat , then both break into smiles like two giddy seventhgraders at the local skating rink .
Stanley nervously clears his throat .
She 's got him .
Can I borrow your car ?
There 's something I need to do .
She reaches down beside the chair , grabs her keys and tosses them to him .
Then :
If you 're going to see your daughter , you might want to reevaluate the way you look .
-LRB- goes back to her book . -RRB-
Just a thought .
He looks at her with open mouth amazement .
In just 24 hours , she already knows what makes him tick .
She looks up from her book and winks at him , then returns to her reading .
A SCHOOL BELL RINGS and three hundred screaming kids of all ages come running from the doors .
ANGLE ON HOLLY Not your average ten-year-old .
Even decked out in bellbottoms and sandals there is something about the way she carries herself that is older ; wiser ; sadder .
She walks into a CLOSEUP and scans the driveway .
Reflected in her tiny , round lavender shades we see the circular driveway of the school jam-packed with buses and parental types in their M-series Mercedes and their Lexus SUVs .
She sighs .
We CRANE UP , PANNING LEFT .
Holly walks to the edge of the street oblivious to the mayhem .
She looks up and down the street then slowly drops her backpack and sits down on the curb .
She pulls a well-worn copy of William Gibson 's Neuromancer from her backpack , and turns up the raging ELECTRONICA from her WALKMAN .
Now there is much less pandemonium .
No more buses .
We CRANE DOWN TO a MEDIUM of Holly still in the exact same spot .
Holly sighs , pulls back her headphones and grabs her StarTac from her backpack .
She opens the phone and dials .
The PHONE RINGS and we PAN AROUND the seemingly empty house , finally COMING TO REST ON the back of the couch .
We JIB UP and TILT DOWN .
Melissa is passed out in a pool of her own drool .
The PHONE continues to RING .
Holly hits the phone and then presses speed dial .
We see `` Yellow Cab '' scroll across the phone .
She hits `` SEND . ''
-LRB- O.S . -RRB-
Can I give you a lift ?
Look , creep , I do n't think so -
She stands up , ready for a fight .
And there , next to her is her father ; transformed .
Under his arm is a threefoot-tall stuffed giraffe wrapped with a big red bow .
Daddy ?
-LRB- recognition . -RRB-
Daddy !
She runs to him and wraps her arms around him .
Hey , sweetheart .
Daddy .
What are you doing here ?
I missed you so much .
Me too , baby .
I brought you something .
He holds the stuffed giraffe to her .
Oh , Daddy .
If Mom finds out you 're here she 's gon na have you thrown back in jail .
It 's okay , baby .
Let me give you a ride home .
He grabs her stuff .
C'mon .
He walks toward Ginger 's silver Mercedes CLK which he 's borrowing .
Holly runs and jumps on his back .
They laugh as he carries her to the car .
They sit in the CLK , parked down the street from Holly 's house .
You believe in me , right ?
Of course , but -
I 've found a way to get you back , sweetheart .
It 's my one shot and I 'm taking it .
Just give me a couple of days .
-LRB- crying . -RRB-
I do n't want anything else to happen to you , Dad .
Holly , everything 's going to be okay .
You just have to trust me .
-LRB- crying . -RRB-
I love you , Daddy .
Holly quickly kisses him , jumps out and runs , crying , from the car at full speed , with the giraffe .
Stanley , tears rolling down his face , slaps the steering wheel , trying to figure out how he screwed up his life so badly .
Suddenly , the passenger door opens and a man in a DARK BLUE SUIT and fed-issued shades gets in .
Who the fuck are you ?
-LRB- flipping out his badge . -RRB-
Friend of a friend .
Let 's take a ride .
He motions toward a black Taurus , now parked across the street .
In the back , he sees a face he recognizes .
CLOSEUP ON ROBERTS BACK TO STAN
Shit .
The man kinda smiles at Stan .
-LRB- being a dick . -RRB-
Got ta suck to be you .
Yep .
Stanley whacks the fed with his elbow across the bridge of his nose and jumps out of the car .
Stan runs across the hood of the Taurus and just jumps over the railing .
We realize what Stan did probably was n't the smartest move in the world .
The cliff is just barely on this side of 90 degrees and drops off about five hundred yards straight down to the PCH .
Stan falls in SLOW MOTION about thirty feet before the cliff face angles out enough to break his fall .
He begins a combination of sliding and tumbling down the bluff .
Roberts runs to the railing and sees Stanley sliding / falling down the hill .
-LRB- to his men . -RRB-
Cut him off at the bottom .
Roberts then hops the railing , as his men scramble for the car .
Roberts hangs in mid-air a moment , then he too begins the rolling fall down the hill .
ANGLE ON STANLEY as he tries to keep his balance , is being beaten and battered by the sharp , rocky ground .
Finally , he shoots off an outcropping and free-falls for fifteen feet .
Then it really gets bad .
Clear plastic sheeting has been stretched across the hill to help control the erosion .
To Stanley however , it is the world 's largest Slip and Slide .
He is no longer able to control , even badly , his descent .
Now , he is flying down the cliff face , only the rocks and bushes that slam into his body , slows the descent .
Roberts , above him , is doing little better .
LONG SHOT ON CLIFF FACE As Stan and Roberts slide toward the eight lanes of blazing afternoon traffic on the PCH .
Finally , Stan bounces onto the black-top road .
He runs headlong into the traffic .
CARS SCREECH , HORNS BLARING , as they slide into each other .
Stanley does not lose the single-minded focus of escaping .
Roberts , now at the bottom himself , watches as a CAR SLIDES sideways into Stan , flipping him over it .
Stan , not stopping to feel the pain , runs across the hood of a freshly-stopped car .
On the other side , Stan runs down to the beach and runs down the sand at full-tilt , looking for any escape route .
Roberts has made up some time due to the auto-pedestrian accident which slowed him down a little .
Stan however is faster .
Stan does his best Jerry Rice , as he runs down the beach at full speed .
Suddenly , the Taurus comes tearing-ass across the beach at Stanley .
Stan veers , now running through the surf .
The Taurus veers as well , and Stan is forced to slide across the hood to keep from getting whacked .
The Taurus breaks left , and slides further into the surf .
The FBI driver hits the accelerator and bogs the Taurus down , tires spinning , throwing sand .
Stan continues to run as Roberts makes it to the Taurus .
Fuck this .
He pulls his .40 CAL .
from his shoulder holster and FIRES it into the air .
Roberts bends over trying to catch his breath .
Stanley stops , putting his hands up .
Why did n't you do that earlier , sir ?
Roberts looks at the agent .
Sorry , sir .
Go get him .
Three of the agents bring Stanley over .
Stan slides down by the back wheel .
What are you doing in L.A. , Stan ?
-LRB- catching his breath . -RRB-
Vacationing .
Why were you running ?
We just wanted to talk .
Are you arresting me ?
For violating your parole by leaving Texas without permission or for evading a federal agent and almost getting me killed in the process ?
Stan just looks at him .
No , I 'm not .
Then why are we talking ?
Did n't know the court lifted the sanction preventing you from seeing your daughter .
Fuck you .
You just want to cut through the pleasantries and get down to business ?
Fine .
I can help you with your daughter , Stan .
Help me , I 'll help you .
You 'll have to forgive me , the fact that you put me in jail for 18 months does n't inspire a lot of trust .
Whether I agreed with what you did or not , you broke the law , Stanley .
I guess we were both doing what we had to .
This was a nice trip down memory lane , but if you 're not arresting me .
So , why was it you are in L.A. again ?
I told you -
-- vacationing .
That 's right .
Ya know it 's funny .
Axl Torvalds was just here for a vacation , too .
Is n't it odd that the two best hackers in the world are here at the same time .
I 'm a sucker for Disneyland .
-LRB- getting up . -RRB-
Tell Torvalds I said hello .
If you 're not careful you can tell him yourself .
He 's dead .
Stanley looks at Roberts .
-LRB- to his men . -RRB-
Give him a card .
They do .
Stan looks at it .
In case you think of anything else you want to tell me .
Stan turns to walk off .
-LRB- to the agent he elbowed . -RRB-
Sorry about your nose .
Hey , Stan .
Stan turns .
You know , you 're in way over your head here .
-LRB- walking off . -RRB-
I know .
It 's a long walk back up the hill , Stanley .
You want us to give you a lift ?
Stan lifts his middle finger behind him and begins the long journey back up the hill .
Roberts collapses into the passenger seat .
Follow him .
Yessir .
CLOSEUP ON ROBERTS watching Stan walk away .
Ginger walks in and closes the door .
She walks over to the dresser and takes off her earrings .
Then she reaches under her dress and unVelcros the modified 10mm .
Glock and its thigh holster , dropping it on the dresser .
She then pulls off the hip , little designer dress she is wearing , revealing the fact that she is wearing a tiny transmitting receiver taped between her breasts .
She stares at herself in the mirror for a moment , then slowly starts to untape the bug .
-LRB- O.S . -RRB-
I have to hand it to you , Ginger .
You look good wearing anything .
Even a wire .
Ginger grabs her Glock and spins around , the holster dropping away with the touch of a button .
She levels it on the dark corner of the room where Stanley sits waiting , drinking a bottle of Gabriel 's expensive wine .
You gon na kill me ?
I 'm thinking .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
What are you doing here , Stanley ?
I should probably ask you the same question .
He leans forward into the light .
What happened to you ?
Little accident .
-LRB- tossing her her keys . -RRB-
Sorry about your car .
I 've had a pretty shitty day so far .
Looks like it just got worse .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
Who are you , Ginger ?
I ca n't tell you .
-LRB- incredulous . -RRB-
You ca n't tell me ?
Well , that 's just fuckin ' peachy .
Think , Stanley .
-LRB- loudly . -RRB-
Who are you ?
He 'll kill me .
Gabriel walking down hallway .
That 's not my problem , is it ?
You 're asking for a lot of faith here , Ging , without givin ' me any .
You -
-- Stanley -
-- brought me into this mess -
-LRB- pleadingly . -RRB-
-- Stanley -
-- I deserve to know who 's playing me , Ginger .
-LRB- hitting each word . -RRB-
Who the fuck are you ?
nearing Ginger 's room .
-LRB- quietly . -RRB-
I 'm D.E.A. , Stanley .
Stan and Ginger hold a moment , as :
-LRB- O.S . -RRB-
Ginger ?
Stanley , in one quick thinking movement , rips the wire from Ginger 's chest and flings it behind the bed just as the door swings open .
Gabriel stands staring at them .
Ginger topless , weapon in hand and Stanley who looks like he had the shit kicked out of him .
Ginger and Stanley both stare at him .
Well , Ging , does n't this look friendly .
I 'm a friendly girl .
Stanley looks at Ginger for a beat .
Actually .
Ginger stares at Stanley , who turns to look at Gabriel .
Gabriel looks at Stan , waiting .
Thought maybe you 'd like to see me get you your hydra .
Get ?
Stan walks toward Gabriel .
C'mon .
Gabriel walks into the hall .
Stanley looks back at Ginger who mouths the words `` Thank you . ''
Stanley ignores her .
Ginger reaches down and grabs a shirt off the bed .
-LRB- O.S . -RRB-
You look like shit .
Ginger kick your ass ?
-LRB- O.S . -RRB-
-LRB- deadpan . -RRB-
Funny .
Ginger sighs and tosses her gun onto the bed , then follows them .
Stanley , looking a little rough , sits in front of the huge array of flat-panels .
He works quickly .
The nitrogen system , an array of hoses winding across the living room floor , intermittently SHOOTS JETS of GAS upwards , dropping the temperature to a livable 85 degrees .
Gabriel sits next to Stan .
Ginger walks in .
She stands behind Stan as he works .
Miss me ?
Terribly .
COMPUTER The screen shows the MIT University logo .
Then `` ACCESS DENIED . ''
His fingers work the keyboard .
As he talks , we TRACK DOWN an old , concrete stairwell and down a long , dank hallway .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
My senior year at M.I.T. , I created the source code for the worm that I 've been using for years .
We TRACK AROUND a corner .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
In the basement and through a file room is the only P.D.P.-10 still active and on the internet , although only a few people know this .
It 's an I.T.S. machine and kept online just for historical sake .
I hid my worm inside it where no one would ever think to look .
We DOLLY INTO a CLOSEUP ON a large , ominous , dark mainframe .
hitting a key .
as it HUMS TO LIFE .
as it fills with lines of code .
ANGLE ON STAN who turns around , a cocky grin on his face , like a proud parent , she smiles at him .
Gabriel walks in .
Now I just have to modify the code .
He 's fucking amazing .
Yes he is .
She runs her hand affectionately across the side of his head and walks out .
I see you have a groupie .
-LRB- ignoring that . -RRB-
You know , it 'd be a lot simpler if you would tell me exactly what the hydra is going to be used for ?
PUSH IN ON Gabriel as he thinks about it .
Have you heard of Operation Swordfish ?
Nope .
The Lamborghini pulls up in front of a Starbucks .
You 'll appreciate the irony here -
Gabriel gets out of the car , still talking .
Stanley follows .
-- In the early Eighties the D.E.A. set up a network of dummy corporations as a government front to launder drug money and gather evidence .
Problem is , the front companies started making money .
Lots of money .
By 1986 , when Operation Swordfish was terminated , there was close to 400 million dollars in the D.E.A. 's accounts .
Gabriel and Stanley walk through the door and sit down at a window table .
Money that just sorta disappeared .
It did n't disappear .
It just sat in those accounts earning interest , it 's been 15 years .
You have any concept how much money we 'd be actually talking about today ?
Billions , brother .
That 's nine zeros .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
Look , this is a sweet deal .
We go in over phone lines .
Pop the firewall , drop in the hydra , and just sit back and wait for the money .
Before we can tap into the secure cluster , you have to find one of the banks on the backbone of this network .
Do you know how many banks there are in the U.S ?
It could take years .
No problem .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
Look behind you , Stan .
Stanley turns and looks out the window .
They are sitting directly across from the World Banc .
Gabriel and Stanley walk toward the house .
The CAMERA PANS LEFT and we can now see Gabriel 's house , poolside .
We PULL BACK , THROUGH a window INTO :
A small trailer across the canyon from Gabriel 's house .
Who is he ?
We do n't know that yet , sir .
There 's definitely something going on .
There are two T-5 trunks going into the house .
That 's serious bandwidth .
Thermal scopes indicate a huge heat-load in the main living area .
Could be from mainframes , although they must have a genny 'cause power consumption is right on par .
Some of these fellows might be dressed in Armani , but they definitely have the swagger of exmilitary .
Maybe bodyguards but they seem more like mercs to me .
From here we 're having trouble pinning any of them down .
Sure would be nice to task a satellite , sir .
I 'm working on it .
Send what you have up-lines , maybe we 'll have one by the end of the week .
Roberts walks out of the trailer .
Stanley works at the computer .
Roberts looks out the window through a camera with a huge lens .
Gabriel stands by the pool , his BACK TOWARD US .
Slowly , Gabriel turns around .
He is staring directly AT US .
Roberts instinctively jerks his head up .
Slowly he looks back into the eyepiece .
Who the hell is that ?
He presses the switch and the CAMERA 'S SHUTTER WHIRLS .
Senator .
Close the door .
He does .
We have a problem .
-LRB- walking toward desk . -RRB-
Look at these .
Kaplan spreads out the surveillance photos on the desk .
The Senator looks up at Kaplan .
Reisman , who now stands in a windowless room .
The only furniture is a desk on which rests a small laptop and what appears to be a speaker .
An OPERATOR sits at the desk , while Kaplan hovers in the b.g.
We have him yet ?
-LRB- OPERATOR . -RRB-
He 's coming online now , sir .
Ready .
As Reisman speaks the Communication guy types .
We have a problem -
Gabriel and Marco sit at the same type of apparatus , a merc at the laptop .
Reisman 's dialogue comes out of the SPEAKER , but it is no longer Reisman , it is a COMPUTERIZED VOICE .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
-- Seems you have gotten yourself in a predicament .
I 'm not exactly following you .
Transfer the pictures .
Gabriel looks at the surveillance photos as they come up .
We INTERCUT as they speak .
-LRB- irritated but respectful . -RRB-
Senator , I sincerely hope you did not contact me and jeopardize the safety of me and my men for this .
Goddamn right I did .
You know where I got that ?
From the deputy director of the F.B.I. .
He thought I might be interested .
Sir , with all due respect .
Do you think there is any aspect of this operation I am not fully aware of ?
We are aborting the operation and securing alternative means of finance elsewhere .
What ?
We are aborting this operation .
Take a vacation .
A vacation ?
Have I ever failed you , sir ?
That 's not the point .
It 's my point .
Senator , this operation is going forward .
You understand what you are saying ?
Everything is under control .
He disconnects .
Reisman turns to Kaplan .
-LRB- regretful . -RRB-
Do it .
Terminate the Vortex .
Yessir .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
Sir , he does work for us .
Excuse us .
-LRB- as the Communication guy leaves . -RRB-
Son , let 's say you have a 200 pound Rottweiler .
He loves you , and it 's his job to protect you .
But if he ever bites you , even once , you got ta put him down .
You ca n't have an uncontrollable weapon running unchecked in your back yard .
He becomes a liability .
You never know who he might bite next .
Yessir , I understand .
Stanley works at the keyboard .
He reaches for his glass of wine and it is empty .
He grabs the bottle .
It , too , has been drained .
He sighs and walks into the kitchen .
Stan walks to the fridge .
Opens the door .
No wine .
He sighs .
He closes the door and walks off toward the wine cellar .
In the wine cellar , Stan looks around .
He opens one door , closes it .
He opens another , same thing .
The third , he pulls out a bottle .
Keeps it .
He pulls on another door and it is locked .
He pulls again .
Nothing .
The glass doors of the temperature-controlled reach-in wine cooler is opaque with condensation .
He bends close .
Stanley swipes off the condensation inches from his nose .
EXTREME CLOSEUP - ON FACE leaning against the glass from the other side .
It 's Gabriel 's .
ANGLE ON STANLEY
Fuck !
He drops the BOTTLE of wine .
CRASH , it SHATTERS .
REVERSE ANGLE Gabriel 's body is wedged into the 32-degree white wine cooler .
Jesus Christ !
Stanley looks at the body for a moment , realizes something really bad is going on and hauls ass upstairs .
Stanley runs around the corner .
Gabriel is standing in the doorway , directly in front of Stanley .
Stan damn near falls down .
Stan ?
Stan ca n't say a word .
What 's wrong , Stanley , you look like you 've seen a ghost ?
Gabriel looks in and sees the empty wine bottle at the computer station .
C'mon , Stanley .
Let 's talk .
-LRB- uneasy . -RRB-
Okay .
Let 's go .
Why ca n't we talk here ?
'Cause I do n't want to talk to you in the house , Stanley .
Gabriel walks out .
Stanley slowly follows .
Let 's go .
Stan slowly follows .
How you doing , Stanley ?
-LRB- obviously not fine . -RRB-
Fine .
Something you need to say to me ?
-LRB- freaked . -RRB-
What the hell is going on here ?
-LRB- totally cool . -RRB-
You know anything about Harry Houdini ?
Stan definitely does n't get the point .
He used to make an elephant disappear in a theater full of people .
You know how he did it ?
Gabriel unwraps a piece of gum -
How ?
-- and sticks the piece in his mouth .
Misdirection .
Gabriel whips right down a side street and drops the hammer .
He blows through a stop sign , then another .
CARS CRASH .
He is calm , cool , but continues to glance in his rearview mirror .
What are you doing ?
We have a tail .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
Hope you had a light lunch , Stan .
Gabriel slides left into an alley , gets it under control and SCREAMS toward the other side .
A black Suburban pulls up , closing off the alley .
He slides to a stop and slams it into reverse .
Backwards at 60-plus miles per hour .
Hold the wheel .
Gabriel reaches in the passenger floorboard and pulls up a duffel bag .
He unzips it , and withdraws what the Marines call a SAW -- a Belgian-designed machine gun , compact but with 1500 rounds of Swiss cheese action per minute , powerful enough for the U.S. to replace the M-60 .
Shit , it 's blocked .
Gabriel looks behind them , another black Suburban has blocked them in .
The one from the other side and a third comes toward them down the alley .
Keep it straight .
The speedometer needle is pegged at 0 as they SCREAM backwards .
Gabriel unfolds the stock and then withdraws a 100-round box wrapped in white tape and printed with AP .
He clips it and pulls back the bolt .
He grabs the wheel from Stan .
It 's just rough when you grow up lovin ' James Bond movies .
Do n't worry , Stanley , it 'll be over soon .
ANGLE ON LAMBO As the Diablo slams backwards into the Suburban at sixty mph .
Bam .
Gabriel unbuckles himself and stands up through the open roof and UNLOADS FULL-AUTO into the Suburban .
The armorpiercing SHELLS PENETRATE the Armalite GLASS , RIPPING the occupants to shreds .
Gabriel turns , FIRING at the other Suburban .
Drive , drive !
Stanley slides under Gabriel as Gabriel steps into the passenger side .
The wheels spin , the Lambo is wedged under the Suburban .
Go , go !
Gabriel continues to BLAST FULL-AUTO , tearing the Suburban to shrapnel .
I am !
Finally the mortally wounded but still kicking Lamborghini tears free of the Suburban and rockets head - on toward the other .
Stanley drives like a maniac .
Gabriel RIPS it on FULL-AUTO , meatloafing the driver .
The Suburban veers into the wall .
Smack .
Stanley whips beside it and Gabriel STRAFES down the side , opening it up .
Stan whips right onto a main street .
More Suburbans head at them .
Stan SCREAMS left into another alley .
Through the cross streets whipping by at 100 mph , we see Suburbans parallel to them .
Stan cranks his wheel right .
Shit !
-LRB- changing out a clip . -RRB-
Keep your cool , Stanley .
The Lambo rolls to a stop and Gabriel hops out , running at the Suburbans .
After a moment of all-out GI Joe-style blitzkrieg , it 's over .
Gabriel walks to a body lying in the street .
He turns over the body and looks at the face .
Goddamit .
I knew it .
Gabriel walks back to one of the burning Suburbans where Stanley stands .
Get in the fucking car , Stanley .
I 'm not going anywhere until you tell me what 's going on .
Gabriel pulls out his H&K , points it at Stanley .
You 're on my good side and you want to stay there .
Stanley , I like you , but do n't confuse kindness with weakness .
So , get in the fuckin ' car .
I need my hydra .
FADE TO BLACK .
Stanley is working at his terminal .
Stanley ?
You alright ?
What do you think ?
I just watched that maniac murder ten men in the street .
I 'm just fucking great .
It does n't matter if I get my daughter back if I 'm dead .
Even if I do survive this , who 's gon na keep me out of jail ?
You ?
She walks over to him and kneels down , places her hand on his leg , looks up at him .
I wo n't let anything happen to you , Stanley .
You have to trust me .
Trust you ?
Two hours ago I found out you 're D.E.A. .
The feds are crawling up my ass and there 's a dead body in the basement that looks just like Gabriel .
She does n't move .
Stanley , if we do n't find out who he 's working for then we 're just going to have to do this all over again .
Your little slush fund is not my problem .
I 'm pulling the plug on this rodeo .
Roberts may be an asshole , but he is definitely the lesser of the two evils .
I 've been working on this thing for eight months , and I will not let some jarhead fed fuck up my operation .
Please , I know what I 'm doing .
C'mon , Stanley .
You have twelve hours .
Do what he wants .
Finish the worm .
You 're starting to sound just like him .
They look at each other .
Stanley turns toward the computer screens .
FADE TO BLACK .
as it quickly unwinds .
Reisman , dressed in your average , fly-fishing garb , stands in the shallow water of a wide river , thinking he has contained the situation , is doing what he enjoys most .
He rewinds the reel and flicks it out again ; the hook sails into the distance .
A huge Cohiba cigar hangs from his satisfied grin .
Faintly , we hear the WHINE OF MACHINERY .
Jim hears it , too , odd since we are so far in the boonies .
He looks around , then up and we PUSH IN TO a CLOSEUP .
REISMAN 'S POV An evil-looking , camouflaged gunship suddenly crests the hill directly above him , ROTORS THUMPING .
BACK TO SCENE Reisman ducking , his cigar falling from his mouth , has to fight to hold on to his ridiculous fishing hat .
ANGLE FROM ABOVE HELICOPTER Water sprays everywhere as it hovers .
Slowly it drifts over to the bank and lowers where it touches down briefly , the side door slides open .
ANGLE -LRB- SLOW MOTION -RRB- as Gabriel steps out and walks TOWARD us .
The copter lifts off behind him .
BACK TO SCENE Reisman drops his rod and digs into the fishing box at his right .
Gabriel saunters toward him as the helicopter disappears over the rise .
Reisman is not happy .
-LRB- sniffing in air . -RRB-
Ahh , the great American outdoors .
I 'll never understand the appeal of fly-fishing , Jim .
A little too much like masturbation for me , without the payoff .
Gabriel looks around , suddenly realizing something .
This 's a catch-and-release stream , is n't it ?
That 's right .
Gabriel starts to laugh .
Reisman does n't catch the joke .
Oh c'mon , Jim .
You got ta see the irony in the chairman of the Joint Sub-Committee on Crime , fishing in a catch-and-release stream .
CLOSEUP - REISMAN Grimaces , not thinking it is funny .
WIDER
How could you do it , Jim ?
After all we have sacrificed .
All the blood , all the death .
I 've changed my identity so many times , I do n't even know what I look like anymore .
How could you turn on me when we are so close ?
You did this to yourself .
You brought me in to get the job done and you did n't want to know about the consequences .
The F.B.I. was watching you -
I told you there was nothing that I was unaware of -
That 's why we 're here .
You are too arrogant , too aggressive -
You have misplaced your loyalties , Senator .
You have sold America out .
I am a patriot , and patriotism does not have a four-year shelf life .
Unfortunately , politicians do .
Gabriel pulls out his H&K , dangling it by his side .
-LRB- arrogantly . -RRB-
And what are you going to do with that ?
Thomas Jefferson once shot a man on the White House lawn for treason , Senator .
You tried to execute me in the name of politics , now I execute you in the name of the people .
Gabriel shoots Reisman in the chest .
He falls into the water .
Stanley continues to work .
Marco walks in .
You 're up , mate .
Great .
Get your shit , we 're headin ' out .
His hands fly across the computer keys , he slides in a zip disk , transfers the file , and runs for the door .
Outside , Marco waits in his black Porsche Turbo ready to roll .
Stanley walks out of the house .
A snazzy , sweat-suited Kaplan walks out to his shiny new silver Porsche , racquet ball racquet flipping in hand .
He 's so downright happy in his confidence that he is on the fast track to political Valhalla , due to his handling of this Gabriel Shear debacle , he is whistling .
He CLICKS the Porsche key , unlocking the driver 's door , tosses in his racquet and climbs in .
He shuts the door and slides the key into the ignition .
Before he cranks it , he catches himself in the rearview and winks at himself .
Smiling , he turns the key .
BOOM .
The Claymore Mine hidden under his seat RIPS the CAR apart , shrapnel tearing upward through his body and out the roof .
The thousand pieces of SHRAPNEL divet the concrete ceiling and then bounce across the parking garage floor .
Stanley is getting out of Marco 's car .
Gabriel walks out of the theater back door .
-LRB- over shoulder . -RRB-
Make sure that bus does n't top out over fifteen-seven .
-LRB- O.S . -RRB-
Yessir .
Gabriel turns and sees Stanley .
Stan , how are you ?
Fine .
Have you finished ?
Stan pulls out the zip disk and hands it to Gabriel who dials his cell phone .
Here .
What ?
-LRB- into phone . -RRB-
Hello .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
Hello , Mr. Jobson .
This is Kristine Jorgenson of Credit Suisse in Grand Cayman .
I need to verify your new account information and have you choose a personal password .
Why ?
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
Mr. Jobson , there has just been a transfer of ten million U.S. dollars into your account .
Stan looks at Gabriel who smiles .
Just like I promised , Stanley .
Then let me go .
I want to see my daughter .
Soon , Stanley .
Walk with me .
I 'm about to do something against my better judgement .
I 'm going to tell you something I never tell anyone .
I 'm going to tell you who I am .
Do n't bother .
I know who you are .
Do you ?
You think I 'm a bank robber .
Really , I 'm just like you .
Like me ?
You 're a murderer .
That I am .
And worse .
Much worse .
I am forced to operate on a different plane than you .
But , I have ethics .
Rules to which I must adhere .
200 years ago Thomas Jefferson wrote a letter to Madison because he was concerned that the freedoms of the constitution would be ignored .
I do n't understand why the fuck you 're telling me this .
Listen to me and you will .
In the 1950s , armed with this letter , J. Edgar Hoover created an organization to protect the freedoms of this country at all costs .
I do n't care about any of this .
All I care about is my daughter .
I 'm talking about your daughter .
My daughter .
Yes .
You , your daughter and 200 million other Americans who take their freedoms for granted .
You do n't understand what it takes to protect those freedoms .
That 's my job , Stanley , to protect your way of life at all costs .
So you and your band of lunatics are really stealing all this money to protect me .
That 's right , Stanley -
He opens the theatre door .
-- 'cause wars cost money .
Stan inside .
It 's as if he 's just teleported into Beirut .
Weapons , Hummers , a huge armored bus is jacked up at one end of the theatre .
Gabriel 's men go about readying themselves .
One of the mercs walks over to Gabriel to show a modified electronic dog collar .
-LRB- realization hitting him . -RRB-
You 're going into the fucking bank .
That 's what I 'm telling you , Stanley .
We are at war .
War ?
Who are we at war with ?
Anyone who infringes on America 's freedom .
Terrorists ' states , Stanley .
Someone must take their war to them .
They bomb a church , we bomb ten .
They hijack a plane , we take out an airport .
They execute American tourists , we tactically nuke an entire city .
We must make terrorism so horrific that it becomes unthinkable to attack Americans .
I 'm out .
I 'm not doing this .
You 're insane .
Maybe .
I wanted you to do this because you wanted to , because we need men like you , but our time table 's been moved up .
Just relax and it will all be over in twenty-four hours .
You 're rich , Stanley .
Pretty soon Holly and you will be basking in the sun on the deck of some eighty-foot scarab , eating bon bons and living the good life .
He turns to walk off .
Stanley looks around .
He spots a generator and moves toward it .
Stanley reaches down to the power board on the generator and gives a large dial a twist .
Suddenly , the hundreds of lights in the rack begin to arc .
In a shower of GLASS they start EXPLODING from the huge amperage shooting through them from the generator .
Gabriel turns to see Stan standing next to the generator .
He moves toward him just as the room goes black .
In a moment the secondary lights come up .
No Stanley .
-LRB- to himself . -RRB-
Pretty slick .
-LRB- walking over . -RRB-
You want to send a team after him ?
No .
He 'll be back .
We got ta move .
Load up .
Early morning in Los Angeles .
People go peacefully about their early morning business .
Suddenly , three red , white and blue Hummers crest a hill and tear TOWARD us down the street .
Halfway down the street , they veer right , jump the curb , and SMASH through the front PLATE-GLASS WINDOWS of the World Banc .
Stanley rides in the back of a cab as the cab hauls ass to his ex-wife 's house .
As the Hummers roll through the furniture and flying glass , the side doors fling open and well-dressed men in Italian suits and sunglasses jump out .
Customers scream and try to flee but are quickly corralled with MACHINE GUN BURSTS .
80-85 .
A red FERRARI F50 whips around the corner at light speed , SCREAMS down the street TOWARD us and SCREECHES to a halt outside the bank .
It shifts into reverse and slowly backs over the curb and into the bank .
A huge armored bus rolls down the street , through two parked cars , and up onto the sidewalk , effectively sealing off the front of the glass bank .
Mercs begin welding metal plates around the armored bus .
We hear the approaching SIRENS of a fleet of cop cars .
The cab pulls up in front of Melissa 's house .
Stanley jumps out and runs up to the front door .
Several of the mercs finish putting some sort of collars on several hostages , including a young , normally goodlooking-but-now-covered-in-mascara , whimpering blonde girl .
Stanley busts into her house .
In the living room , Melissa and the infamous Larry the Porn King are both face-down in a pool of blood .
Stan freaks .
He runs from room to room yelling Holly 's name .
The house is deserted .
Stanley bursts through the door into Holly 's room .
The room is empty and in disarray .
CLOSEUP - STANLEY As he looks out the window toward LA and pulls out Roberts ' card .
FADE TO BLACK .
BLACK SCREEN SUPERIMPOSE : FRIDAY , OCTOBER 18 8:45:33 .
34 .
35
THROUGH glass doors , we see the woman slam into the locked doors .
The SWAT guy pulls her into the street .
KABOOM !
The EXPLOSION rips the SWAT guy and the girl from the beginning apart .
This time we see it from ANOTHER ANGLE .
BALL BEARINGS RICOCHET against the plate steel of the bank .
as the ball bearings bounce across the street and tap against the coffee shop .
Everyone in the coffee shop looks at each other like , `` What the fuck just happened ? ''
As ball bearings roll back into the street .
Stanley is standing in the bank .
Three mercs in Donna Karen suits point modified M-16s at his head .
He stares at the ground , shaking his head .
Gabriel tosses his frappacino against the wall .
Get that son-of-a-bitch on the phone .
Gabriel walks towards the window , slinging his FN-FAL , and pulling on his headset .
A.D. Joy answers .
If you need to test my resolve then God help you .
You have 25 minutes .
That plane better be on the runway .
He clicks off .
He turns to Stan .
Get my money , Stanley .
Not until I see my daughter .
Gabriel snaps his fingers and a ballistic cloth duffel bag is thrown to Gabriel .
Gabriel is very unhappy .
He looks at Stanley who is terrified of its contents .
CLOSEUP - DUFFEL BAG As he unzips it .
BACK TO STANLEY Stanley almost ca n't bear to look .
CLOSEUP - DUFFEL BAG As Gabriel slowly reaches in and .
Pulls out our buddy the giraffe .
WIDER Stanley 's heart almost stops .
He sighs as Gabriel tosses him the giraffe .
Do you really think I wanted it to come to this .
Do you ?
I am not a psychopath , Stanley , but I told you , I will sacrifice as many lives as it takes to protect our country , including my own .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
Now get me my money .
Will you let Holly go once you have the money ?
Both of you .
You have my word , Stanley .
C'mon .
They walk past a merc sitting at a desk , a laptop open in front of him .
Marco is paying very close attention to Stan .
A merc sits at a desk with three laptops and four tiny extra monitors , all wired into a large bundle of cables that run across the floor .
We okay ?
The merc looks up .
On the monitors and laptop screens are present-time shots of all angles of the building and the surrounding area .
The images constantly change as the merc toggles through the images .
Look at the cover pattern they 've set up .
The right hand does n't know what the left 's doing .
Look at this bozo .
If the shit drops , he 's gon na cap his buddy in the back of the head .
Idiots .
Stanley sits down at the computer console and brings up the bank 's mainframe .
I need the disk .
A merc hands it to him and Stanley slides it in the computer .
His hands work quickly .
It is 9:15 .
Now it is 9:35 .
Almost done .
Suddenly the lights flicker , Stan 's screen blanks out momentarily , then blazes back to life , his code scrambled .
Stan instinctively jerks his hands away from the keyboard .
Whoa !
What the hell just happened ?
Gabriel looks at the lights as they flicker back on , the huge portable GENERATOR springing to life .
They just cut the power .
Forget it .
How long to transfer the money ?
Couple of minutes .
Which accounts ?
National Bank of Zurich .
Spread it evenly over these accounts .
It wo n't be there that long .
-LRB- dryly . -RRB-
Great .
Good job , Stanley , I got someone who wants to see you .
They bring Holly out .
Holly !
Stanley grabs her and pulls her close to him .
Are you okay ?
Holly nods yes .
Stanley and Holly are escorted toward the door .
Gabriel stands in front , holding his FN-FAL .
He is speaking in French to several of the mercs .
Hold up .
Stanley stops .
Gabriel walks down the steps and unhooks Holly 's collar .
Stan is about to freak .
-LRB- to Stanley . -RRB-
Told you I was a man of my word , Stanley .
He walks back .
Marco unlocks the door .
Stanley and Holly look at each other .
Holly starts to cry .
It 's okay .
I love you , baby .
Marco stares at Stanley as they walk out .
See ya around .
I doubt it .
He starts to walk out .
Sir , the money just disappeared .
What ?
The money , it 's gone .
Gabriel turns around to look at Stanley .
We ZOOM INTO a CLOSEUP .
He 's pissed .
What do you mean , gone ?
WIDER We see Stanley .
He looks like he just got caught with his hand in the cookie jar .
Shit !
Run , Holly !
Get her !
Marco pulls his assault rifle but Stanley waylays him .
They both hit the ground .
Holly hauls ass into the street .
Once the FBI SWAT guys see she is off the sidewalk , they scoop her up .
Gabriel jerks out his weapon and jams it against Stan 's head as he and Marco roll around on the ground .
Wo n't do you any good .
The money jumps every 60 seconds from one numbered account to another and will for the next ten years .
` Course it was n't supposed to happen for another six hours .
The power surge must have scrambled the internal clock .
But , you kill me and you never get a single dollar .
Gabriel eases up , wheels spinning at millions of RPMs .
You let the hostages go and then I 'll tell you where and when you can extract the money .
We all walk away , nobody gets hurt .
The accounts are encrypted with a 1024 bit cipher .
Even I ca n't break through the fire wall .
It 's my act of God policy .
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
Deal ?
I 'm thinking .
A very tense moment passes .
Gabriel looks around .
He has an idea .
Tell ya what .
No deal .
Marco pulls a length of towing cable from one of the Hummer 's winches and throws the line over one of the 30foot-high ceiling buttresses .
Gabriel grabs the cable as it comes down as two mercs rush in and grab Stanley , one placing a knife to his throat .
Marco !
Grab Agent Sculley !
Marco grabs Ginger and drags her kicking , fighting , over to where Gabriel stands , brandishing the cable .
No , do n't do this .
Stanley struggles like there is no tomorrow .
Gabriel hooks the end into a noose with the tow hook , and puts it over Ginger 's head , pulling it taut around her neck .
He cuts the cable-tie loose .
She digs at them with her fingers .
Two mercs rush in and grab Stanley , one placing a knife to his throat .
Stanley struggles like there is no tomorrow .
In all reality , Stan , she has you to thank for this .
That first night in Prague you broke the D.O.D. database that contained her true identity .
She 's D.E.A. , Stan , but without you , I never would have known .
-LRB- freaking . -RRB-
What are you doing ?
Stop !
String up the D.E.A. bitch .
Marco hits the power switch .
Ginger is yanked up into the air , hanging twenty feet above the floor .
Just let her down .
I 'll do whatever you want .
Then get me my money , Stan .
Stanley looks up at Ginger , valiantly struggling for her life .
I 'm not doing shit until you bring her down .
I 'm serious .
Let her down .
Now !
Okay .
Gabriel yanks out his .40 cal .
H&K , turns and SHOOTS the hanging Ginger .
Nooo .
Stanley looks at her lifeless body as they lower her .
He looks up at Gabriel and runs at him .
Gabriel slaps him in the throat , spinning him , and grabs Stan around the neck in the crook of his arm .
-LRB- close and very serious . -RRB-
Take a moment , big guy .
Do n't make me put you in a wheelchair .
In the b.g. two mercs zip Ginger 's body into a black body bag and carry her out .
You did n't have to kill her .
I did n't Stan , you did .
But we 're not done yet .
-LRB- to Marco . -RRB-
Marco .
Marco yanks a seventeen-year-old girl up from the floor and puts a gun to her head .
There are a lot of hostages here .
I cared about Ginger , can you imagine what I could do to someone I do n't care about .
How long before the money jumps ?
Sixty seconds .
They better hope you installed a back door or it could be a long day .
Somebody get me a laptop .
A laptop appears .
Gabriel hands it to Stanley and nods to the mercs who drop him .
Stanley drops to his knees , placing the computer on the ground .
Stanley has logged onto the net via modem and we hear that familiar PULSE as he does .
He connects onto an encrypted site on the net .
His fingers hum over the keys .
-LRB- looking at a screen . -RRB-
Money just jumped .
-LRB- looking at his watch . -RRB-
Okay , Stan .
Sixty seconds .
Sweat rolls down Stanley 's face as he works on the machine .
Numbers scroll across the screen .
Five columns of numbers scroll .
Forty-five seconds , Stanley .
I need another laptop , logged on !
He tries to keep from looking up at the crying hostage .
The columns decrease .
Another laptop appears .
Twenty seconds , Stan .
His fingers still fly .
Three columns now .
He works on the other laptop with his right hand .
Fifteen .
She 's gon na die , Stanley .
Shut up !
Two .
Then one .
C'mon , c'mon .
It scrolls down to one number .
Ten .
The home page for Grand Cayman Banc appears on the other laptop .
`` Account Number '' appears .
Nine .
Eight .
Seven .
Stanley has typed in the account number and accesses the account .
He flies through the transfer information .
Account balance .
6.9 billion dollars .
I need your account number .
Someone hands him a legal pad .
He types it in .
Four , three , two .
`` Transfer ? ''
-- `` Yes '' -- TRANSFERRING .
One .
Let her go .
Stanley jumps up and runs over to Marco .
Gabriel puts his gun to the back of Stanley 's head .
Now , goddammit , it 's done .
Let her go !
Gabriel looks at one of his boys who is checking it with a different laptop .
He nods .
Marco drops the girl .
Well , that was fun .
A MERC holding a cell phone .
Joy says the plane is ready .
Well , ` bout time for us to leave .
They 'll never let you escape .
You 've gone too far .
Au contraire .
Do you hear that ?
-LRB- beat . -RRB-
That 's the sound of America watching .
We MOVE UP THROUGH the roof of the bank , the sky is filled with the THUMPING of NEWS HELICOPTERS .
They lead the hostages , including Stanley , onto the bus .
He is pushed down into the back .
-LRB- to the driver . -RRB-
Let 's roll .
The driver pulls the door lever and it closes .
The bus pulls into gear and slowly moves forward .
The cops and FBI agents just stare vacantly at the bus .
You just gon na let them drive the fuck on outta here ?
There is n't a free cop in a hundred miles that is n't on his ass .
He wants a plane .
He 'll get a plane .
A G5 sits waiting on the tarmac .
SWAT teams move in to cover positions around it .
He wo n't get away .
We 'll take them at the airport .
Let 's go .
They exit .
Roberts tosses the paper he was reading down on the table and walks out , shaking his head .
CLOSEUP - NEWSPAPER The headline reads , `` U.S. SENATOR JAMES REISMAN -LRB- GEORGIA -RRB- FOUND DEAD , VICTIM OF FREAK FISHING ACCIDENT . ''
Joy and Agent Thomas jump in a waiting car , ready to head toward the airport .
Roberts watches them , then commandeers another vehicle , tearing ass after the bus .
The bus rolls down the street .
Slowly one by one , car with flashing lights after car with flashing lights pulls up behind it until a convoy rivaling that of the Sugarland Express has built up .
Choppers drop out of the air , shadowing the bright yellow school bus .
Gabriel 's voice booms from speakers on the exterior of the bus .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
I do n't think any of us want a repeat of this morning .
Keep at least a hundred yards from this bus at all times and I want the airspace for five miles clear .
-LRB- dropping the mic and turning to the hostages . -RRB-
Ladies and gentlemen , we will be in your lives for approximately 55 more minutes .
This bus has just become your new yard .
So sit back , think happy thoughts , and this will be over before you can say ` cat in the hat . '
Gabriel , smiling , turns to Stanley .
Whaddaya think , Stanley ?
You 'll never get away .
Even if they have to kill everyone on the bus .
Really ?
Five hundred bucks says I do .
Tell ya what , Stanley , I 'll even spot you the five bills .
Gabriel walks to the front of the bus , puts on a headset , and keys a mic .
We are moving through the city .
Behind the bus , a huge caravan of police cars and SWAT trucks follow .
Stan , c ` mere .
Stan slides out of the seat and walks to the front with Gabriel .
All the hostages ' eyes are on him .
At the front he looks at Gabriel .
Take a look .
Cops block off side streets as the convoy , ala The Gauntlet , rolls through L.A. Gabriel seems to be in complete control , despite being surrounded by every law enforcement officer within a hundred miles .
Stan turns to Gabriel , angry .
He grabs him , pushing him .
How the fuck can you justify all this ?
You 're not looking at the big picture .
Gabriel pushes him backward against the hand rail .
Stanley , here 's a scenario .
You have the power to cure all of the world 's diseases .
But the price for this is that you must kill a single , innocent child .
Could you kill that child to save the world ?
No .
You disappoint me , Stanley .
It 's the greatest good .
Silence for several beats .
How about ten innocents ?
Now you 're getting it .
How about a hundred ?
Gabriel becomes intense .
How about a thousand ?
Not to save the world , but just to preserve our way of life .
No man has the right to make that decision .
You 're no different than any other terrorist .
You 're wrong , Stanley .
Some men are put here to shape destiny , to protect freedom , despite the atrocities they must commit .
I am one of those men .
Thousands die every day for no reason at all , where is your bleeding heart for them ?
You give your twenty dollars to Greenpeace every year and think you are changing the world .
What countries will harbor terrorists , when they realize the consequences of what I will do ?
Did you know I can buy nuclear warheads in Minsk for forty million each ?
I buy half a dozen , I even get a discount .
The driver , looking at his watch , says something to Gabriel in French .
Gabriel replies to the driver , also in French .
CLOSEUP - DRIVER as the driver shifts down .
CLOSEUP - DRIVER 'S FOOT Pressing down the accelerator .
CLOSEUP ON SPEEDOMETER Nudging toward eighty .
What the fu -
I saw Sugarland Express , Stan .
Did n't like the way it ended .
We see a sign that says `` LAX . ''
The bus turns off before they get to the sign .
I thought we were going to the airport .
Misdirection , Stanley .
The bus hurtles down a road toward a bridge over the LA river .
CLOSEUP ON ONE OF HOSTAGE 'S EYES WIDER One of the mercs in the front speaks French again .
Gabriel looks around .
He smiles .
Listen .
Faintly , we can hear powerful ROTORS APPROACHING .
Gentlemen .
Stanley looks out the window as two of the mercs scramble through hatches in the roof .
A huge black Sikorsky sky crane drops out of the sky .
It has matched speed with the bus dragging four crane cables under it .
Within moments , as the bus speeds onto the bridge , the mercs on the roof have hooked the cables to the four hard-points welded into the bus ' substructure for just this purpose .
The mercs drop back into .
Hold on .
The bus is lifted from the bridge into the air .
Roberts , hauling ass after the bus , sees the Sikorsky .
Well why the fuck not .
The SWAT teams sit and just continue to wait for Gabriel , who will never show up .
Joy and Agent Thomas come SCREECHING up at the airport .
Agent Thomas 's PHONE RINGS and he answers it .
Joy walks over to the SWAT leader .
Everything in place ?
We 're ready , sir .
Good -
-LRB- running up . -RRB-
-- sir .
Yeah ?
I do n't think they 're coming .
What do you mean you do n't think they 're coming ?
-LRB- listening to the phone . -RRB-
The bus was just lifted off the street by a giant helicopter .
-LRB- freaking . -RRB-
What ?!
?
-LRB- laughing . -RRB-
The only way to fly , huh , Stanley .
Gabriel says something in French into the radio .
The sky crane/bus head toward downtown .
The bus flies through the canyons of the downtown buildings as it continues to lift .
Suddenly the bus crests a smaller building , and a large sign looms directly in its flight path .
Bank right !
The Sikorsky swings right but not fast enough .
It SMASHES through the sign and heads directly at a huge glass building .
BROKERS in a bullpen go about their trading business .
One looks up as the bus flies toward the huge plate glass windows .
Holy sh .
His cohorts look up just as the BUS SLAMS INTO the BUILDING , SHATTERING the WINDOWS .
Everyone holds on for dear life .
The bus falls on one side .
The resulting tension snaps the sliced cable and the entire rear section of the bus dangles .
Chaos .
Hostages slam into each other as the bus falls .
One of the hostages flies down the center of the bus , collides with Marco , and both go out through the back window .
Forty feet from the bus they EXPLODE .
The concussion BLOWS OUT every WINDOW of the bus .
The hostages scramble to hold on .
The bus now hangs suspended perpendicular to the ground .
The Sikorsky starts to climb again .
Gabriel turns to the merc driving the bus , who is wearing a headset .
We okay ?
-LRB- listening to his headset , then . -RRB-
We 'll make it , sir .
The Sikorsky flies upward to the top of the highest skyscraper .
Roberts chases after the bus .
He looks up , realizing where they are going and veers off , short-cutting toward the skyscraper .
The Sikorsky attempts to set the bus on the rooftop .
The back wheels miss the rooftop and the entire bus starts sliding toward the edge .
The Sikorsky lifts the entire bus back up into the air and then gingerly sets it on the rooftop on all four wheels .
The CABLES are cut loose from the helicopter , and drop down onto the ROOF with a loud CLANG .
Roberts rushes to the building .
The helicopter then disappears upward into the sky .
ON ROOF Mercenaries begin to pile off the bus .
Stan watches .
SWAT trucks pull up and SWAT guys roll out .
Roberts rushes into the skyscraper .
SWAT commandos hit the stairs and elevators .
Sitting there on a helipad is an evil-looking , matteblack , Explorer helicopter .
Gabriel and his men walk off the bus toward the waiting helicopter .
Gabriel turns back to Stanley who is standing on the stairs of the bus .
We hear the sound of hundreds of SIRENS APPROACHING .
Well , Stanley , got ta fly .
Take care of that little girl .
Maybe I 'll see you again one day .
It ca n't end like this .
You ca n't get away .
C'mon , Stan .
Everything does n't always end the way you think it will .
-LRB- beat , then . -RRB-
` Sides , audiences love happy endings .
Gabriel strides away .
We hear the WHINE of the EXPLORER as it does its final POWER UP for lift off .
Stanley looks around the bus futilely for some way to stop Gabriel .
Stan can hear the cavalry about to arrive .
The Explorer slowly lifts upward .
The Explorer shoots upward into the sky .
Stan looks around , all the hostages look back at him .
Stanley sees one of the Stinger missile launchers , broken free of its box .
Roberts runs onto the roof and sees Stanley who has the STINGER to his shoulder .
He hits the `` on '' switch and it WHINES TO LIFE .
He sights through the scope as the EXPLORER SCREAMS away and pulls the trigger .
The MISSILE RIPS OUT of the tube and flies toward the EXPLORER .
BOOM .
The MISSILE EXPLOSION combined with the fuel creates a tremendous fireball .
Roberts runs and tackles Stanley to the ground .
Suddenly , SWAT GUYS dressed in full combat gear including masks that cover their faces surround them .
They cuff them .
One of them almost steps on Stanley 's face .
I 'm F.B.I .
-LRB- ignoring him . -RRB-
Check the rest of the hostages , we 'll come back for them .
Stretchers and EMT medics run into the bus .
We CRANE UP .
And see the absolute pandemonium of ambulances leaving and police cars arriving .
FADE OUT .
We see DOCTOR MICHEALS leaning over what is left of Gabriel 's barely recognizable burned upper torso and head .
Stan and Roberts walk into the room through the metal doors and stop at the end of the table .
Dr. Micheals nervously looks up at Stanley and steps back .
Stanley looks down at the body .
Are we sure this is Gabriel ?
Micheals walks over to a light-board on the wall and flicks it on .
A full dental X-ray glows .
Micheals hangs another over-top of it .
The body 's dentals exactly match the dentals the Israeli government sent us for an ex-Mossad agent named Gabriel Shears .
CLOSEUP ON FACE It is indeed Gabriel a.k.a. Gabriel Shear .
WIDER
It sure looks like Gabriel Shear .
What the hell was he doing in that bank ?
What about Ginger ?
We searched all the hospitals and morgues but we have n't been able to find her body yet .
You ca n't find her body ?
No , sir .
Keep looking .
Bodies just do n't fucking disappear .
Roberts ' voice slowly FADES as we PUSH IN ON Stanley , internal wheels spinning .
-LRB- to himself . -RRB-
Disappear .
1910 STOCK FOOTAGE Houdini 's favorite elephant trick going on inside Stan 's head .
A large crowd of people surrounds Houdini and pale-suited assistants in front of a large elephant in the center ring .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
Houdini made an elephant disappear in a room full of people .
His assistants pull a curtain all the way around the elephant .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
You know how he did it ?
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
Elephant suit .
Filled with his assistants .
We see his assistants jump out of the elephant and hang the suit inside the curtains .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
Assistants jump out .
Blend in with the others .
Houdini 's assistants pull back the curtain , melding with the assistants inside , unbeknownst to the audience of course .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
Voila .
The elephant is gone .
Houdini throws up his hands .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
No more elephant .
in black urban assault gear , pushing Stan to the ground .
Realization sinking in .
Ginger looks at him , holding her Glock , a wire taped between her breasts .
I 'm D.E.A. , Stanley .
CLOSEUP - GINGER
Trust me .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
-- so advanced nowadays you could probably pilot it from your trailer .
-LRB- smiling . -RRB-
Misdirection .
Gabriel 's `` face '' smooshed against the glass door .
Roberts looks at him inquisitively .
ANGLE ON STANLEY As a wry Indiana Jones smirk slowly crosses his face .
He slowly shakes his head .
Cheer up , Stan , we got him .
You 're a hero .
Yeah that 's me .
Hero .
They walk to the door and out .
I was wrong about you , Stanley .
I wanted you to know that .
You know , you should take your daughter on vacation .
Relax a little , you 're lucky to be alive .
Stanley slaps Roberts on the arm and walks out .
FADE OUT .
A WOMAN who looks surprisingly like Ginger with blonde hair and dark shades saunters into the Credit Suisse main bank in Monte Carlo .
She walks up to a desk and sits down in front of a young female BANK EXECUTIVE .
Both women speak in French with SUBTITLES .
I would like to transfer money between my employer 's accounts .
Certainly .
May I have your employer 's account number and password , please ?
The Woman slides a piece of paper across the desk as she casually lights a cigarette .
-LRB- looking at the account number , realizing who she is dealing with . -RRB-
Oh , of course .
You realize , how should I say , there is a substantial amount of money in that account .
The sexy Woman smiles .
That 's why I 'm here .
My employer does n't like drawing attention to himself .
He likes to keep a low profile .
The Bank Executive keys in the account numbers .
Of course .
Would you feel more comfortable dealing with the bank president ?
-LRB- exhaling . -RRB-
Would you ?
Yes .
Get him .
Right away .
A glass of Cristal while you .
Wait a moment .
What ?
There seems to have been a series of large withdrawals out of this account .
That 's impossible .
The Woman spins around the terminal .
The Executive and the Woman look at each other in astonishment , then both look back at the screen .
The balance now reads $ 500.00 .
We PUSH INTO A CLOSEUP OF the terminal .
Then THROUGH it .
We PUSH INTO a CLOSEUP of the terminal .
Then THROUGH it .
We SHOOT THROUGH the system of wires and microchips , DOWN and THROUGH T1 lines , ACROSS the world at light speed , and EXIT the computer world FROM .
The screen of Stanley 's laptop .
-LRB- O.S . -RRB-
Everything okay , Dad ?
Stanley , sitting at a booth , looks up from his laptop at Holly who was studying a road map of Arizona .
Everything 's fine .
Just making the last of some charitable donations .
Stanley finishes , shuts down laptop .
How about you , almost done ?
-LRB- folding up road map . -RRB-
Yep .
Got it all figured out .
Well , let 's do it .
They leave table .
They exit diner .
Make their way to a new SUV with a thirty foot tricked out Airstream trailer stretched out behind it .
By the way , where exactly are we going ?
The Petrified Forest .
The Petrified Forest .
Stanley opens the driver side door of the SUV .
Right .
And I 'm driving .
Holly climbs into the vehicle , as if to take the wheel .
Stanley slides in next to her .
Scoot over , you .
WIDE SHOT WE CRANE UP and AWAY as the vehicle pulls out of the desert truck stop .
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
Know why they call it the Petrified Forest ?
-LRB- V.O . -RRB-
No .
Why ?
and drives off down the road .
FADE TO BLACK .
A MAN , whom we have not seen before but does maintain a certain `` Gabriel '' air about him , hiding behind shades , leans against a three-hundred-year-old column reading a newspaper .
She walks toward him and he signals for the valet .
You 're not fucking gon na believe this .
Stanley -
-- How much he leave ?
500 bucks .
He takes the $ 500 in cash from her hand and hands her the paper .
They walk down to the dock , where a 50-foot offshore cigarette boat waits , a valet standing next to it .
He hands the valet the $ 500 .
Stepping down into the cigarette boat , he grins up at Ginger .
-LRB- WOMAN . -RRB-
-LRB- steppng in next to him . -RRB-
You do n't seem that upset .
Did you ever see the Maltese Falcon ?
She looks at him as he CRANKS UP the CIGARETTE and backs away from the pier .
1941 .
Nominated for three Academy Awards , lost , but what the fuck does the Academy know anyway .
John Houston 's first film and probably Bogey 's best .
He turns the BOAT around and POWERS out of the bay .
At the end , when they realize the bird 's a fake , and all they had gone through and sacrificed was for nothing , Gutman , the bad guy in the movie , says , ` well , sir , what do you think , shall we stand here , shed tears , and call each other names , or shall we go to Istanbul ? '
Istanbul ?
What 's in Istanbul ?
The , ah , stuff dreams are made of .
Huh ?
They both smile as the CIGARETTE disappears toward the horizon .
FADE OUT .
THE END
