Chev Chelios (Jason Statham) is a Los Angeles-based English hitman and prolific criminal.
He works for the wealthy and influental West Coast Crime Syndicate, headed by crime lord Carlito (Carlos Sanz).
Chelios has a girlfriend named Eve Lydon (Amy Smart), who doesn't know his true profession and he plans to quit working for the syndicate so that he could spend more time with Eve.
Before he could quit, Chelios is contracted by Carlito to kill mafia boss Don Kim (Keone Young) as the Chinese Triads have been encroaching on Carlito and his businesses for the last months.
Chelios apparently carries it out.
However, unbeknownst to Chelios, the hit proved to be "ill-advised", as the heat from the Triads had become bigger than Carlito expected and to ease the pressure Carlito offers the Chinese an explanation and a solution : Carlito had nothing to do with the hit, certain elements from his organization acted on their own and that he will have them removed.
Ricky Verona (Jose Pablo Cantillo), an ambitious small-time criminal and long-time rival of Chelios, uses the opportunity to conspire with Carlito against Chelios - Verona would kill Chelios so that the Chinese don't retaliate and then Verona can take Chelios's place as Carlito's new hired gun.
While Chelios sleeps in his apartment, Verona, his brother Alex (Jay Xcala) and several henchmen break in, with Verona injecting Chelios with a Chinese synthetic drug (referred to once as "The Beijing Cocktail" and every other time as "The Chinese Shit"), which inhibits the flow of adrenaline, slows the heart and eventually kills the victim.
Chelios wakes to find a disc, which was left by Verona and contains a recorded video, during which Verona is shown injecting Chelios with the poison, taunts him, tells him how he should have thought twice before killing Don Kim and tells him he should have about an hour left before the poison stops his heart.

Chelios phones Doc Miles (Dwight Yoakam), a personal physician to the Mafia, who informs Chelios that in order to survive he must keep his adrenaline pumping through constant excitement and danger, or get some artificial adrenaline, epinephrine.
With his own adrenaline keeping the poison at bay at first, Chelios breaks into a hospital and steals numerous drugs, much more than Doc Miles advises him to take and also gets "juiced" by a hit from a defibrilator.
He also keeps his adrenaline up through reckless and dangerous acts like picking fights with other gangsters, committing robberies with brazen shoplifting, fighting with police, stealing a police officer's motorcycle then riding it in order to crash it, having sex with his girlfriend in public and driving his car through a shopping mall.

The entire film takes place in a single day, on November 7, 2005, over the course of which Chelios sets out to find Verona and his street gang.
Thinking that Carlito is on his side and could help him, Chelios visits Carlito, who is in the middle of a party at his penthouse and begs Carlito to help find an antidote to the poison, as well as to find and kill Verona and his crew.
However, Carlito simply says there is no antidote and only confirms Verona's words from an earlier cellphone conversation between Chelios and Verona that Carlito and Verona are working together.
Carlito also tells Chelios how he will use his death as a scapegoat against the Chinese.
An angered Chelios leaves Carlito's penthouse to find Verona and through Chelios' street contact Kaylo (Efren Ramirez) finds Alex at a restaurant and unsuccessfully interrogates him about his brother's whereabouts.
Alex manages to wrestle Chelios to the ground and the two fight until Kaylo intervenes and Alex moves on to beat him.
Chelios takes advantage of the situation, picks up Alex's gun and shoots Alex in the back of his head, killing him.
Chelios phones Verona through Alex's phone and coldly tells him about of his brother's death, prompting Verona to send thugs after Chelios' girlfriend Eve Lydon (Amy Smart).
Chelios rushes to pick up Eve before Verona's thugs get to her.
Chelios reveals to her his true profession and that he spared Don Kim's life and told him to leave LA, because Chelios wanted to quit the syndicate and spend more time with Eve.

Chelios receives a call from Kaylo, who tells him that Verona is at a warehouse, owned by the Triads.
Chelios goes there and finds several henchmen, working for Carlito and also finds Kaylo murdered.
They reveal that Carlito ordered his men to find and kill Chelios, due to the fact that Chelios made unauthorized hits and destroyed properties, during his mayhem across Los Angeles and as a result caused a great deal of embarassment to the syndicate.
Eve unexpectedly arrives and she and Chelios escape after a shootout with Carlito's henchmen.
They go to Doc Miles's place, where Miles explains to Chelios that he can't cure him from the poison, but that he can keep Chelios alive for some time, but he will eventually fall into coma and die.
Rather than choosing to be kept alive and eventually die, Chelios decides to take his revenge on Verona and arranges a meeting with him at the downtown hotel "Lint".
Before leaving, Chelios promises to Eve that he will come back and also takes with him an insulin pump, filled with ephedrine, which will keep him alive for an hour.

Chelios goes to the rooftop of the hotel and meets with Verona, Carlito and his henchmen.
During a conversation between Carlito and Chelios, Carlito critisizes Chelios for being a real nightmare, but also praises him for being very resourceful after removing the insulin pump, while Chelios tells Verona that once he (Chelios) dies, Verona will be paid only half the money Carlito used to pay Chelios and also insults Verona several times.
Verona quickly rises and he points his gun at Chelios and threatens him, until Carlito yells at him to sit down and laments the fact that the day was very long, but everything turned out okay, with Don Kim dead and the Triads from Hong Kong getting their scapegoat.
Carlito then takes out a syringe, filled with the chinese poison and as he is about to inject the poison into Chelios and kill him, Don Kim surprisingly arrives with his Triads to assist Chelios and a shootout follows.
During the battle, Chelios, Carlito and Verona take cover, while Don Kim's and Carlito's men whipe out each other.
After all of his men get killed, Carlito tries to escape with his private helicopter, but Chelios manages to catch up to him and has him at gunpoint.
Before Chelios can kill Carlito for betraying him to Verona and for ordering the hit on him, which resulted in the death of Kaylo, Verona sneaks behind and injects Chelios with the syringe, after which Chelios collapses.
Carlito himself is betrayed by a treacherous Verona, who shoots Carlito in the chest several times, killing him and then tries to escape with the helicopter.
Chelios manages to stand up, thanks to the large noise coming from the helicopter, boards it and engages in a fight with Verona.
Both Chelios and Verona fall from the helicopter, over the course of battle.
Chelios finally kills Verona by snapping his neck mid-air and, while still falling, calls Eve on his cell phone to apologize for not coming back.
Chelios hits a car, bounces off it and lands right in front of the camera.
In the last shot, it is implied that his adrenaline is indeed still flowing fast; his nostrils flare, he blinks, and two heartbeats are heard.