In London, the British mob boss Lenny Cole (Tom Wilkinson) rules the growing real estate business using a corrupt Councillor (Jimi Mistry) for the bureaucratic services and his henchman Archy (Mark Strong) for the dirty work.
A billionaire Russian businessman, Uri Omovich (Karel Roden), plans a crooked land deal, and London's crooks all want a piece of it.
Other key players include the underhand accountant Stella (Thandie Newton) and ambitious small-time crook One-Two (Gerard Butler) leading a group called the "Wild Bunch" which includes Mumbles (Idris Elba) and Handsome Bob (Tom Hardy).

Lenny charges Uri €7,000,000 for the crooked deal; Uri has his accountant Stella find funds.
Uri lends his lucky painting to Lenny as a sign of friendship.
Stella, however, double-crosses Uri and tips off the Wild Bunch to steal the money, while the painting is stolen from Lenny's wall by his junkie rocker stepson Johnny Quid (Toby Kebbell), who disappears.
Lenny and Archy enlist his managers Mickey (Chris "Ludacris" Bridges) and Roman (Jeremy Piven) to track down Johnny.

After Uri's money is stolen by the Wild Bunch a second time, his assistant Victor begins to suspect that it is Lenny who has been stealing the money and purposely keeping Uri's painting from him to resell it.
This theory enrages Uri, who lures Lenny to a private golf game in order to break his leg, warning him to return his painting without delay.

Cookie (Matt King) happens to buy the painting from some crackheads who had just stolen it from Johnny's hideout.
Cookie then gives the painting to One-Two who, in turn, offers the painting to Stella (after a sexual encounter) as a token of appreciation.
After Stella leaves his flat, One-Two is surprised by Uri's henchmen but is rescued, and then kidnapped, by Archy and his goons who had come looking for Uri's money.

Uri wants to marry Stella who he has long admired.
At Stella's house he proposes, but he spots the painting.
Stella lies and says she has had it for years.
Uri, enraged by this and realizing that Stella betrayed him, orders Victor to kill her.

Archy brings Johnny, the Wild Bunch, Mickey, and Roman to Lenny's warehouse, where Johnny provokes his crippled stepfather.
Before Johnny can reveal a damning truth about Lenny in front of everyone, Lenny shoots him in the stomach.
Lenny then orders Johnny executed.
He demands that the Wild Bunch tell him where the money is.
Handsome Bob calls out to Archy and offers the documents in his jacket pocket, confirming what Johnny had been about to reveal: that the "rat" in the ranks, codenamed "Sidney Shaw", was Lenny all along.
Lenny arranged with the police to routinely throw many of his associates in prison for years at a time in order to secure his own freedom and sow fear among his gang.
One-Two, Mumbles, and even Archy were among the people Lenny has ratted on over the years.
Archy orders Lenny's men to free the Wild Bunch and has Lenny executed by drowning.

In the lift on their way to their deaths, Johnny graphically explains to Mickey and Roman that they will be executed, and the manner of their executions.
His description unnerves the man who's to execute the three men, prompting him to make a move prematurely.
Having also already anticipated this move, Johnny warns Mickey and Roman to intervene and kill their would-be executioner.
Johnny shoots two more men waiting at the top of the lift.
They overcome the last of the gangsters (with the help of the Wild Bunch) and escape.

Later, Archy picks up Johnny from rehab.
Archy gives the painting to Johnny as a peace offering.
Archy reveals to Johnny that obtaining the painting "cost a very wealthy Russian an arm and a leg".
Johnny proclaims that, with his new-found freedom from addiction and his father, he will do what he could not before: "become a real RocknRolla".