Travis Bickle (Robert De Niro), an honorably discharged U.S. Marine, is a lonely and depressed man in New York City.
He becomes a taxi driver to cope with chronic insomnia, driving passengers every night around the boroughs of New York City.
He also spends time in seedy porn theaters and keeps a diary.
Travis becomes infatuated with Betsy (Cybill Shepherd), a campaign volunteer for Senator Charles Palantine (Leonard Harris), who is running for President.
After watching her through her office window, interacting with fellow worker Tom (Albert Brooks), Travis enters to volunteer as a pretext to talk to her and takes her out for coffee.
On a later date he takes her to see a Swedish sex education film (Language of Love), which offends her, so she goes home alone.
His attempts at reconciliation by sending flowers are rebuffed so he berates her at the campaign office, before being kicked out by Tom.

Travis confides in fellow taxi driver Wizard (Peter Boyle) about his thoughts, which are beginning to turn violent, but Wizard assures him that he will be fine.
Disgusted by the street crime and prostitution that he witnesses throughout the city, Travis finds an outlet for his frustration and begins a program of intense physical training.
He buys guns from dealer Easy Andy (Steven Prince) and constructs a sleeve gun to attach on his arm with which he practices drawing his weapons.
One night, Travis enters a convenience store moments before a man attempts to rob it and shoots the robber.
The shop owner (Victor Argo) takes responsibility and Travis leaves.
On another night, teenage child prostitute Iris (Jodie Foster) enters Travis's cab, attempting to escape her pimp Matthew "Sport" Higgins (Harvey Keitel).
Sport drags Iris from the cab and throws Travis a crumpled twenty-dollar bill, which continually reminds him of her.
Travis arranges to meet Iris and attempts to persuade her to quit prostitution.
They meet again the next day for breakfast and Travis becomes obsessed with helping her return to her parents' home, sending her money to do so and a letter in which he states he will soon be dead.

After shaving his head into a mohawk, Travis attends a public rally where he attempts to assassinate Senator Palantine, but Secret Service agents notice him and he flees without taking a shot.
He returns to his apartment and then drives to the East Village, where he confronts Sport.
Travis shoots him, then walks into Iris’ brothel and shoots off the bouncer's fingers.
After Sport shoots Travis in the neck, wounding him, Travis shoots him dead.
Another thug appears and shoots Travis in the arm, but Travis reveals his sleeve gun and kills the thug.
The bouncer continues to harass Travis, causing Travis to shoot him in the head and kill him.
As a horrified Iris cries, Travis attempts suicide but, out of ammunition, resigns himself to a sofa until police arrive.
When they do, he places his index finger against his temple gesturing the act of shooting himself.
Recuperating, Travis receives a letter from Iris's parents who thank him for saving her and the media hail him as a hero.
Travis then returns to his job and encounters Betsy as a fare.
She discusses his newly found fame, but he denies being a hero and drops her off free of charge.
He glances at her in his rear view mirror as he drives away.