Carrie White is a shy, friendless 17-year old girl abused by her unstable mother Margaret, who is a religious fanatic.

One day at the gym during the showers, Carrie experiences her first period.
Having no prior knowledge of menstruation, Carrie believes she is bleeding to death.
Her classmates, including Chris Hargensen and Sue Snell, react by throwing tampons and sanitary pads at her.
Gym teacher Miss Collins intervenes; as Carrie becomes more frantic, a light bulb bursts in the showers.

Miss Collins brings Carrie to the principal's office to excuse her from gym class for the next week.
After Carrie grows angry from the principal repeatedly mispronouncing her name (Cassie Wright instead of Carrie White), an ashtray on his desk flips onto the floor.
At home, Margaret receives a call from Miss Collins about the locker room incident.
Margaret tells Carrie that the "curse of blood" was divine punishment for sin and forces her to confess before locking her into a prayer closet to pray for forgiveness.
That night, a miserable Carrie stares at her bedroom mirror until it shatters.

The next day, Miss Collins subjects Carrie's tormenters to a week-long boot-camp-style detention, threatening them with suspension from school and the prom if they do not attend.
Chris storms off the field in the middle of the first session, and is banned from the prom.
Sue, feeling guilty for teasing Carrie, convinces her boyfriend Tommy Ross to invite Carrie to the prom.
Carrie suspects she may have telekinesis.
While researching in the library, Tommy invites her to the prom, but she declines, fearing another trick.
Tommy later visits Carrie's house and repeats his invitation; she accepts.
Carrie tells her mother she is going to the prom, but Margaret declares the prom a sinful occasion.
Carrie reveals her telekinesis, which causes Margaret to believe she is a witch.
Carrie insists on going to the prom, and Margaret reluctantly accepts.

Chris tells her delinquent boyfriend, Billy Nolan, that she wants to humiliate Carrie again.
She goes with Billy and other kids to a local farm, where Billy kills a pig and drains its blood into a bucket.
Billy then sneaks into the school and places the bucket above the school's stage.
As Carrie prepares for the evening, her mother tries to discourage her from going to the prom, claiming that everyone will laugh at her.
Carrie's classmates are surprised to see her at the prom, and though most treat her neutrally several teenagers point and snicker, especially once she reveals her dress is homemade.
She has a wonderful time, especially after a teacher comforts her with stories of her own prom, and enjoys dancing with Tommy, who gives her her first kiss.
Sue, who was unable to attend due to lacking a date, sneaks into the prom to ensure everything goes well for Carrie.