In 1987, obese, illiterate 16-year-old Clarice Precious Jones (Gabourey Sidibe) lives in the New York City ghetto of Harlem with her dysfunctional, abusive, unemployed mother, Mary (Mo'Nique), who has long subjected her to physical and mental abuse.
She has also been raped by her father, Carl (Rodney "Bear" Jackson), resulting in two pregnancies.
The family resides in a Section 8 tenement and survives on welfare.
Her first child, "Mongo" (short for Mongoloid), has Down syndrome and is being cared for by Precious' grandmother, though Mary forces the family to pretend Mongo lives with her and Precious so she can receive extra money from the government.
When Precious' second pregnancy is discovered, her high-school principal arranges for her to attend an alternative school, which she hopes can help Precious change her life's direction.
Precious finds a way out of her traumatic daily existence through imagination and fantasy.
In her mind, there is another world where she is loved and appreciated.

Inspired by her new teacher, Blu Rain (Paula Patton), Precious finally learns to read and write, and she meets sporadically with social worker Ms. Weiss (Mariah Carey), who learns about incest in the household when Precious lets slip who fathered her children.
While Precious is in the hospital giving birth to her second child, Abdul, she meets John McFadden (Lenny Kravitz), a nursing assistant who shows her kindness.
After her mother hits her and deliberately drops 3-day-old Abdul, Precious fights back and flees her home, taking Abdul.
As they set out, she stops at a church window and watches the choir sing a Christmas hymn inside, imagining herself and her dream boyfriend singing a more upbeat version.
Precious then breaks into her school classroom to escape the cold.
Upset and extremely frustrated at the sight, Blu contacts several people regarding where Precious can stay.
Later that night, Precious stays with Blu and her live-in partner (leading Precious to speculate that Blu is lesbian).
The next morning, Miss Rain catches her and Abdul and finds assistance for her: Precious will be able to continue her schooling while she raises Abdul in a halfway house.

Precious' mother soon returns to inform her that her father has died of AIDS; Precious later learns that she is HIV-positive, but Abdul is not.
Feeling dejected, she meets Ms. Weiss in her office and steals her casefile; as she recounts the details of her file to her fellow students, she develops a new outlook on life.
Precious and her mother meet for the last time in Ms. Weiss' office, where Ms. Weiss questions Mary about her abuse of Precious and uncovers specific physical and sexual traumas she encountered from the age of 3.
Mary begs Ms. Weiss to help get Precious back, but she refuses when she discovers the extent of the abuse.
The film ends with Precious intent and focused on improving life for herself and her children.
She severs ties with her mother and plans to complete a GED test to receive a high school diploma equivalent.