Peter Brock (Michael Bryant) is the head of a research team in an electronics company, Ryan Electrics, working on developing a new recording medium in the hope of giving the company an edge over its Japanese competitors.
The research team are moving into a new facility at "Taskerlands", an old Victorian mansion that has been renovated to act as their research facility.
On arrival, they learn from estates manager Roy Collinson (Iain Cuthbertson) that the refurbishment of one of the rooms in "Taskerlands" remains uncompleted, the builders having refused to work in it on the grounds that it is haunted.
Curious, the researchers explore the room and hear the sounds of a woman running followed by a gut-wrenching scream.
One of their number, computer programmer Jill Greeley (Jane Asher), sees an image of a woman running up the steps in the room and falling, apparently to her death.
Inquiring with the local villagers, they learn that a young maid died in that room during Victorian times.
Brock postulates that somehow the stone in the room has preserved an image of the girl's death – this "stone tape" may be the key to the new recording medium that he and his team have been charged with developing.
Brock and his team move into the room with their equipment hoping to be able to find the secret of how the stone tape works but, becoming more and more desperate under mounting pressure to deliver results, they succeed only in wiping the image.
Brock's defeat is compounded when he is informed by his superiors that they have lost confidence in his work and that the "Taskerlands" facility is to be shared with a rival research team working on a new washing machine.
While cleaning up, Jill realises that the recording in the room was masking a much older recording, left many thousands of years ago.
Returning to the room, she is confronted by a powerful, malevolent presence and, like the maid before her, falls to her death trying to escape.
Following the inquest, Brock destroys all of Jill's records and makes a final visit to the room where he discovers, to his horror, that the stone tape has made a new recording – that of Jill screaming his name as she dies.