Napoleon Dynamite is a high school student from Preston, Idaho who lives with his grandmother, his older brother Kip, and their pet llama, Tina.
Kip, 32, is currently unemployed and boasts of spending hours in Internet chat rooms with "babes" and training to be a cage fighter; their grandmother leads a secret life involving mysterious boyfriends and quad-biking in the desert.
Napoleon daydreams his way through school, doodling ligers and fantasy creatures, while reluctantly dealing with the assorted bullies who frequently torment him.
Napoleon frequently makes up fantastic stories about himself and assumes a sullen and aloof attitude.

Napoleon's grandmother breaks her coccyx in a quad-bike accident and asks their Uncle Rico to look after them while she recovers.
Rico, a middle-aged former athlete who lives in a 1975 Dodge Tradesman campervan, uses the opportunity to team up with Kip in a get-rich-quick scheme to sell numerous items door-to-door.
Kip wants money to visit his Internet girlfriend LaFawnduh, while Rico believes riches will help him get over his failed dreams of NFL stardom and the loss of his girlfriend.

Napoleon becomes friends with two students at his school: Deb, a shy girl who runs various small businesses to raise money for college; and Pedro, a transfer student from Ciudad Juárez.
A friendship soon develops between the three outcasts.
Inspired by a poster at the school dance, Pedro decides to run for class president, pitting him against Summer Wheatley, a popular yet snobby girl at the school.

Rico and Kip's scheme causes friction with Napoleon when Rico begins spreading embarrassing rumors about Napoleon in order to generate sympathy in his customers.
Tensions finally come to a head after Rico tries to sell Deb a breast-enhancement product, claiming it was Napoleon's suggestion, which causes her to break off their friendship.
Rico is ultimately beaten up by the town's martial arts instructor after the instructor mistakenly believes that Rico is making advances on his wife.
Kip, meanwhile, raises the money to pay for LaFawnduh to visit him from Detroit.
She gives Kip a makeover, outfitting him in hip hop regalia, and the two leave together to return to Michigan.

On the day of the class president elections, Pedro gives an unimpressive speech before the student body.
As the two were unaware that Pedro needed to have a skit prepared, Napoleon gives the sound engineer a tape he received from LaFawnduh, and performs an elaborate dance routine to "Canned Heat" by Jamiroquai.
The routine receives a standing ovation from everyone except for Summer and her boyfriend.

The film concludes with Pedro becoming the class president, Rico reuniting with his estranged girlfriend, Grandma returning from the hospital, and Napoleon and Deb making up and playing tetherball.

In a post-credits scene, Kip and LaFawnduh are married in an outdoor ceremony in Preston.
Napoleon, absent for the vows, arrives riding a horse, claiming that it is a "wild honeymoon stallion" that he has tamed himself.
After Deb photographs Napoleon on the horse, Kip and LaFawnduh ride into the sunset.