Brad Hamilton is a popular senior who is looking forward to his last year of school and almost has his 1960 Buick LeSabre paid off.
He has a part-time job at a burger joint where his girlfriend, Lisa, also works.
He is pondering how to end his relationship with Lisa so he can play the field during his senior year.
However, Brad is fired for losing his temper at an obnoxious customer; and when he tries to tell Lisa how much he needs her, she says she is dumping him to see other guys.
Brad quits his next job because of the humiliation of having to wear a pirate costume when delivering food.
He gets a job at a convenience store, where he successfully thwarts an attempted robbery and is promoted to store manager.

Brad's sister, Stacy Hamilton, is a 15-year-old sophomore.
She is worried that she is not attractive or experienced enough to even meet, let alone have a relationship with, a guy.
While working at the mall she meets a 26-year-old stereo salesman who asks her out (after she tells him she is 19).
She sneaks out to meet him and they have sex at a secluded make-out spot.
She reveals the loss of her virginity to her friend, popular (and sexually experienced) senior Linda, who assures her that it will hurt less as she does it more.

Mike Damone, who earns money taking bets and scalping tickets, fancies himself a ladies' man.
He lets his younger friend Mark Ratner in on his secrets for picking up girls.
Mike coaxes Mark into asking Stacy out to dinner at an upscale restaurant.
Stacy invites Mark into her bedroom after the date, but he quickly shies away and leaves when Stacy tries to initiate sex with him.

Later, Damone goes to Stacy's house for a swim in the backyard pool, which leads to sex in the pool house with Stacy.
When Stacy later informs Damone that she is pregnant, he agrees to pay half the cost of an abortion and to drive her to the clinic, but reneges.
Desperate, Stacy asks Brad to drive her to a bowling alley, but after he drops her off, Brad sees her going to the abortion clinic across the street.
He goes back and waits for her, and she makes him promise not to tell their parents.
Word gets around school about Damone and Stacy, which leads to a confrontation between Damone and Mark in the boys' locker room.

Jeff Spicoli is a surfer and habitual marijuana user who runs afoul of strict history teacher, Mr. Hand, who has no patience for Spicoli's carefree attitude and tardiness.
Finally, on the evening of the graduation dance, Mr. Hand shows up at Spicoli's house and informs him that since he has wasted eight hours of class time over the past year, Mr. Hand intends to make up for it that night.
They proceed to have a one-on-one session that lasts until Mr. Hand is satisfied that Spicoli has understood the lesson.
Spicoli wrecks Ridgemont football player Charles Jefferson's 1979 Chevrolet Camaro Z28 then parks the car in front of the school with slurs painted on it supposedly written by Ridgemont's rival, Lincoln High.
When Ridgemont plays Lincoln, Jefferson is so angry about his car that he injures several of Lincoln's players.
Ridgemont wins the game in a blowout.

In addition to Mark and Stacy's continuing relationship and Brad's promotion to manager at the convenience store, fates of some of the other characters are revealed in subtitles: Spicoli saves Brooke Shields from drowning and then wastes the reward money hiring Van Halen to play at his birthday party; Linda gets accepted to UC Riverside and moved in with her Abnormal Psychology professor; Damone gets arrested for scalping Ozzy Osbourne tickets; and Mr. Hand believes everyone is on drugs.