In the year 2077, Tech 49 Jack Harper (Tom Cruise) is one of the last drone repairmen stationed on Earth.
The planet was nearly destroyed sixty years ago, during a war against the alien Scavengers ("Scavs").
The Scavs destroyed the moon, causing massive earthquakes and tsunamis, before being defeated by nuclear weapons, which left most of Earth uninhabitable.
Surviving humans migrated to the "Tet", a massive orbiting space station, and to Saturn's moon Titan.
From Tower 49, a base standing above the remains of the northeastern United States, Jack and his partner and lover, Victoria "Vika" Olsen (Andrea Riseborough), maintain the autonomous drones that defend giant ocean-borne power stations - that generate fusion power from seawater - from the remnants of the Scav army.
They receive their orders from Sally (Melissa Leo), their mission commander, who is stationed on the Tet, and expect to leave Earth and join the other survivors on the Tet in two weeks.
Although Jack and Vika had their memories wiped five years earlier for security reasons, Jack has recurring dreams about meeting a mysterious woman at the Empire State Building before the war, before he was born.
Jack keeps a secret retreat in a lake house in a forested area that he sometimes visits.

A Scav signal beacon transmitting coordinates off Earth is followed shortly by the crash of a pre-invasion spacecraft.
Drones arrive at the crash site and kill most of the hibernating crew, but Jack rescues a woman, Julia (Olga Kurylenko), recognizing her as the woman from his dreams.
To add to this mystery, when Julia is first roused from her "delta sleep," she seems to recognize Jack, groggily calling him by name.
Later, when she has fully awakened and can eat, Julia says her ship—the Odyssey—was a NASA mission, the objective of which she refuses to reveal, and she and Jack retrieve the ship's flight recorder.
They are captured by Scavs, actually humans living in the Raven Rock Mountain Complex.
Their leader, Malcolm Beech (Morgan Freeman), claims that the alien invasion was a lie and wants Jack to reprogram a captured drone to destroy the Tet by delivering a nuclear weapon powered by the Odyssey's core reactor, the reason they deorbited the Odyssey.
When Jack refuses, Malcolm releases the captives but urges them to seek the truth in the so-called "radiation zone" that Jack is forbidden to enter.

Jack takes Julia to the ruins of the Empire State Building.
She reveals that she was his wife before the war; his dreams were flashbacks to the day he proposed to her on the observation deck.
A jealous Vika watches by video, and when they return to the Tower she refuses them entry.
When she informs Sally that she and Jack are no longer an "effective team", Sally activates a drone that kills Vika.
Sally requests that Jack return to the Tet with Julia, but they flee in his ship instead, pursued by more drones.
They crash in the radiation zone where Jack meets Tech 52, an exact copy of himself.
He defeats the clone who, after seeing Julia, also begins experiencing flashbacks.
Jack sees that Julia has been seriously wounded by a stray bullet.
He impersonates Tech 52, activating his vehicle and going to Tower 52, where he encounters a clone of Vika, and steals a med kit to help Julia.

Jack and Julia return to Beech, who tells them the truth: The Tet is an alien artificial intelligence that attacked Earth to exploit the planet's resources, and Jack and Victoria are two of many thousands of clones created as soldiers to carry out the invasion.
The Tet now uses the clones to maintain the drones, and thereby its dominance.
Surviving humans use old technology (thus looking like "Scavs") to hide from drones.
Jack agrees to reprogram the stolen drone to destroy the Tet.
But three other drones attack the human base and wreak havoc inside, severely damaging the reprogrammed drone and wounding Beech.
The humans destroy the three drones, but need another way to deliver the bomb.
Jack proposes delivering it himself.
Julia suggests that she accompany Jack, since Sally had requested him to bring her to the Tet.

During the flight, Jack listens to the Odyssey's flight recorder, which reveals that he and Victoria were originally pilots on the Odyssey research mission to Titan, which was reassigned by NASA when the Tet was discovered.
Sally was originally their supervisor at NASA mission control, with other personnel, including Julia, on board in cryogenic sleep capsules.
Upon approach, the Tet drew them in.
Recognizing that capture was imminent, Jack jettisoned the sleeping crewmembers, who orbited for sixty years in suspended animation until Beech sent the signal to recall their craft.

Jack enters the Tet, where he is met by a sentient tetrahedral structure that had adopted the persona of Sally.
Jack opens the sleep capsule to reveal Beech; Julia simultaneously emerges from another sleeping capsule at Jack's lake house.
The two men trigger the nuclear bomb and destroy the Tet and themselves.
The destruction of the Tet also deactivates the remaining drones as they were about to attack the survivors at their base.

Three years later, Julia is living with her young daughter in the lake house on the recovering Earth.
A group of survivors arrive there, and Tech 52 emerges from the group.
A voice-over by Tech 52 reveals that his previous encounter had re-awakened memories of Julia, and he had searched for her since the Tet's destruction.
Having the same latent memories as Tech 49, he reunites with "his" family, just as the scene cuts to black.