Seth (Jonah Hill) and Evan (Michael Cera) are two high school seniors who lament their virginity and poor social standing.
Best friends since childhood, the two are about to go off to different colleges, as Seth did not get accepted into Dartmouth.
After Seth is paired with Jules (Emma Stone) during Home-Ec class, she invites him to a party at her house later that night.
Later, Fogell (Christopher Mintz-Plasse) comes up to the two and reveals during lunch his plans to obtain a fake ID.
Seth uses this to his advantage and promises to bring alcohol to Jules' party.

Fogell's fake ID is met with disgust by Seth and Evan, as it states that Fogell's name is simply "McLovin".
After contemplating the options, Seth decides they have no choice but to have Fogell buy the alcohol with his fake ID.
Fogell goes in and successfully buys the alcohol, but is interrupted when a robber enters the store, punches him in the face, and takes money from the cash register.

When police officers Slater (Bill Hader) and Michaels (Seth Rogen) arrive to investigate the robbery, Seth and Evan (who had been arguing outside) believe that Fogell has been busted for the fake ID.
Inside the store, Slater and Michaels are apparently fooled by Fogell's ID and give him a ride to the party.
While arguing over what to do, Seth is hit by a car being driven by Francis (Joe Lo Truglio), who promises to take them to a party he is attending in exchange for them not telling the police.

During Fogell's time with the police, they exhibit very irresponsible behavior such as drinking, shooting their firearms at a stop sign, and improper use of their sirens to run red lights.
All the while, the three develop a strong friendship.
When Seth and Evan arrive at the party, they quickly discover that Francis is not welcome there.
Francis is brutally beaten by Mark (Kevin Corrigan), the party host, while Seth fills detergent bottles from the basement with alcohol he finds in the fridge.
After running away from the party, which soon devolves into a fistfight, Evan angrily asserts that Seth has been holding him back all these years and preventing him from becoming socially active.

During the argument, Evan pushes Seth into the path of the police cruiser driven by Slater, who was distracted by Michaels' flashlight while he was driving.
Afraid of losing their jobs, the cops decide to frame Seth and Evan by arresting them, but when Fogell comes out of the car, Evan makes a run for it, and Seth and Fogell escape with the alcohol.
While running to the party on a bus, the Goldslick vodka that Becca wanted smashes on the floor and the trio are kicked off.
They run to the party, but on the way, Fogell accidentally clues Seth into his, Fogell's, rooming with Evan the next year.
Hurt, Seth takes the alcohol into the party by himself.
At the party, Seth becomes popular and Evan tries to connect with Becca (Martha MacIsaac), but she is drunk.
Becca seduces Evan and goes upstairs to have sex with him, but Evan declines and leaves after she vomits next to him on the bed.
Meanwhile, Fogell impresses Nicola (Aviva Farber) and has sex with her upstairs.
Seth attempts to have sex with Jules, but she refuses because he is drunk, neither does she drink or want to do anything with Seth while he is drunk.
Seth then passes out, accidentally headbutting Jules, leaving her with a bruise.
Michaels and Slater bust the party and Seth saves Evan by carrying him out.
Fogell's lovemaking, lasting only a few seconds, is interrupted by Slater, who scares Nicola away.
Michaels calms down Slater, who is angry at Fogell for ditching them.
After they apologize for "cock-blocking" him, they reconcile and reveal they knew Fogell wasn't 25 the whole time; they had played along, wanting to prove cops can have a good time as well.
To make it up to Fogell, they pretend to arrest him to boost his popularity, then proceed to recklessly drive and destroy their car with Molotov Cocktails while Fogell shoots it.
At Evan's house, Seth and Evan reconcile and declare their friendship for each other.
The next morning, they go to the mall for stuff for college.
They meet Jules and Becca, where they then reconcile with them.
Seth takes Jules to buy eye cover up for her bruise while Evan makes arrangements for a date with Becca and look for a comforter.