Following the introduction, the narrative begins with a funeral in San Fernando Valley.
A small group of mourners are gathered by an open grave, chief among them being an unnamed old man (Bela Lugosi).
The narrator explains that this is the funeral of the old man's wife.
Two gravediggers stand nearby, waiting for the funeral to end and for their work in closing the grave to begin.
[1] The scene shifts from the graveyard to a Douglas DC-7 which is flying over the Valley, heading towards Burbank, California.
The narrative introduces a pilot named Jeff Trent and his co-pilot Danny.
Their seemingly routine flight takes a strange turn, when they are affected by a blinding light and accompanying loud sound.
They look outside their plane and encounter a flying saucer.
The stewardess Edie joins them in the cockpit and also sees the saucer.
[1] The camera leaves the plane and follows the saucer in its flight, until it lands at the graveyard.
The gravediggers hear a strange noise and are spooked.
They decide to leave the graveyard, but are attacked and killed by the resurrected corpse of the young woman.
[1] The scene fades out with the Vampire Girl, as she is called in the credits, moving towards them and the men screaming.
The deaths are implied but remain unseen.
[1]

The following scene opens at the modest home of the old man.
The old man steps outside and is seen lost in his thoughts of grief.
He absent-mindedly steps into the path of an oncoming automobile and dies.
At his funeral, mourners discover the corpses of the gravediggers.
Inspector Daniel Clay and other police officers come to the cemetery to investigate.
Clay distances himself from the others to contact his own search.
[1] The narrative shifts briefly to Jeff Trent and his wife Paula, who live near the graveyard.
He listens to the sirens and then tells Paula about his flying saucer encounter, stating that the Army has sworn him to secrecy.
At this point, a powerful wind knocks everyone in first the Trent residence and then the graveyard to the ground, and a spaceship lands nearby.
At the graveyard, the old man rises from his grave.
The isolated Clay encounters the Vampire Girl and the reanimated corpse of the old man.
His bullets apparently have no effect on either of the two undead and he is killed.
The police crew soon discovers his body and one of them delivers one of the best-remembered lines of the film "Inspector Clay's dead, murdered, and somebody's responsible!"
[1]

In the weeks that follow, newspaper headlines report other flying saucer sightings.
Including reports of them flying over Hollywood Boulevard.
The camera depicts a trio of saucers flying over Los Angeles, including over the local headquarters of CBS, NBC, and ABC, the Mocambo (where a neon sign informs viewers that Eartha Kitt is performing), and over a restaurant owned by Larry Finley.
[1] The scene shifts from Los Angeles to Washington, D.C. and its vicinity, where the military fires missiles against the flying saucers.
The narrative introduces the Chief of Saucer Operations, Col. Thomas Edwards.
The saucers seem untouched by any of the weapons used against them, but still retreat.
Edwards reveals that the government has been covering up the flying saucers, and wonders if the aliens are connected to other disasters on Earth.
[1] He mentions that one small town has already been annihilated, hinting at a secret history of previous encounters.
[1]

The aliens return to Space Station 7 for regeneration.
Their commander, Eros, informs their ruler that he has attempted, unsuccessfully, to contact the governments of Earth.
He says that to force the people of Earth to acknowledge his people's existence, he is implementing Plan 9, which involves resurrecting the recently dead by stimulating their pituitary and pineal glands.
The three alien ships return to Earth.
[1] Trent is about to leave home for another flight.
Concerned for Paula's safety, he urges her to stay with her mother while he's gone, but she insists on staying home.
While the film barely examines the married life of the Trents, there is one line of Paula which Craig finds suggestive and worthy of examination.
In their parting scene, Paula explains that at nights she finds comfort in her absent husband's pillow:"Sometimes at night, when it does get a little lonely, I reach over and touch it."
Which underlines the absence of a living sexual partner for her, and her frequent loneliness while married.
[1] That night, the corpse of the old man rises from his crypt and sneaks into their house.
Joined by the corpse of his wife and the newly resurrected Daniel Clay, he chases Paula through the cemetery.
Paula collapses and is found by a passing motorist.
All three zombies return to Eros' ship, which lifts off.
[1]