The film begins with a man whispering in despair, "The feeling begins.
Very tender, very loving.
Then the pain starts.
Claws slip underneath the skin and tear their way up.
Just before they reach my eyes, they dig in.
And I remember.
First I fasted for three months.
I even whipped myself before I went to sleep.
At first it worked.
Then the pain came back.
And the voices.
They call me by the name: Jesus."
Jesus of Nazareth (Willem Dafoe) is a carpenter in Roman-occupied Judea, torn between his own desires and his knowledge that God has a plan for him.
This conflict results in self-loathing, and he collaborates with the Romans to crucify Jewish revolutionaries.

Judas Iscariot (Harvey Keitel), originally sent to kill Jesus for collaboration,[1] instead suspects that Jesus is the Messiah and asks him to lead a revolution against the Romans.
Jesus replies that his message is love of mankind; whereupon Judas joins Jesus in his ministry, but threatens to kill him if he strays from the purpose of a revolutionary.
Jesus also has an undisclosed prior relationship with Mary Magdalene (Barbara Hershey), a Jewish prostitute, who asks Jesus to stay with her, a request that he considers before leaving for a monastic community.
Jesus later saves Mary from a mob gathered to stone her for prostitution and working on the sabbath.
Jesus compels the mob to spare her life, asking "Who here has never sinned?
", with Jesus offering two stones.
[2] Later, Jesus preaches to the crowd using many of the parables from the Sermon on the Mount.

Jesus acquires disciples, but remains uncertain of his role.
He visits John the Baptist, who baptizes Jesus, and that night the two discuss their differing theologies and political views.
John believes that one must first gain freedom from the Romans to achieve their end, while Jesus maintains that love is more important and people should tend to matters of the spirit.
Jesus then goes into the desert to test God's connection to himself, where he is tempted by Satan as a cobra, a lion, and a pillar of flame (voiced by Barbara Hershey, Harvey Keitel, and Leo Marks), but resists each of these and instead envisions himself with an axe, being instructed by John the Baptist in answer to Jesus' dilemma of whether to choose the path of love (symbolized by the heart) or the path of violence (represented by the axe).
Jesus returns from the desert to the home of Martha and Mary of Bethany (both sisters of Lazarus), who restore him to health and attempt to persuade him that the way to please God is to have a home, a marriage, and children.
Jesus then appears to his waiting disciples to tear out his own heart and invites them to follow him.
With newfound confidence he restores sight to a blind man, changes water into wine, and raises Lazarus (Tomas Arana) from the dead.

Eventually his ministry reaches Jerusalem, where Jesus performs the Cleansing of the Temple and leads a small army to capture the temple by force, but halts on the steps to await a sign from God for what he must do next.
He begins bleeding from his hands, which he recognizes as a sign that he must die on the cross to bring salvation to mankind.
Confiding in Judas, he persuades the latter to give him to the Romans, despite Judas' inclination otherwise.
Jesus convenes his disciples for Passover seder, later known as the Last Supper; whereupon Judas leads a contingent of soldiers to arrest Jesus in the garden of Gethsemane, identifying him with a kiss.
In the struggle to defend his master, Peter (Victor Argo) cuts off the ear of Malchus; whereupon Jesus reattaches it and turns himself over to the soldiers.
Pontius Pilate (David Bowie) confronts Jesus and tells him that he must be put to death because he represents a threat to the Roman Empire.
Jesus is subsequently flogged and a crown of thorns is placed on his head.
He is then crucified.

While on the cross, Jesus converses with a young girl who claims to be his guardian angel (played by Juliette Caton).
She tells him that while he is the Son of God, he is not the Messiah, and that God is pleased with him, and wants him to be happy.
She brings him down off the cross and, invisible to others, takes him to Mary Magdalene, whom he then marries.
They are soon expecting a child and living an idyllic life; but Mary abruptly dies, and Jesus is consoled by his angel; wherefore he takes Mary and Martha, the sisters of Lazarus, for his wives.
He starts a family with them, having many children, and lives his life in peace.
Jesus is next seen as an older man who encounters the apostle Paul preaching about the Messiah and tries to tell Paul that he is the man about whom Paul has been preaching.
Paul (who in this film has slain the resurrected Lazarus) repudiates him, saying that even if Jesus had not died on the cross, his message was the truth, and nothing would stop him from proclaiming that.
Jesus debates him, claiming that salvation cannot be founded on lies.

Near the end of his life, an elderly Jesus calls upon his former disciples to his deathbed.
Peter, Nathaniel, and a scarred John visit their master as Jerusalem is in the throes of rebellion; whereupon Judas comes last and reveals that the youthful angel who released Jesus from the crucifixion is in fact Satan.
Crawling back through the burning city of Jerusalem, Jesus reaches the site of his crucifixion and begs God to let him fulfill his purpose and to "let him be God's son."

Jesus then finds himself once more on the cross, having overcome the "last temptation" of escaping death, being married and raising a family, and the ensuing disaster that would have consequently encompassed mankind.
Naked and bloody, Jesus cries out in ecstasy as he dies, "It is accomplished!
", and the screen flickers to white.