In the late 1940s, Frank Wheeler (Leonardo DiCaprio) meets April (Kate Winslet) at a party.
He is a longshoreman, hoping to be a cashier; she wants to be an actress.
Frank later secures a sales position with Knox Machines, for which his father worked for twenty years, and he and April marry.
The Wheelers move to 115 Revolutionary Road in suburban Connecticut when April becomes pregnant.
Frank and April settle into the normality of suburban life while bringing up their children, Michael and Jennifer.

The couple becomes close friends with their realtor Helen Givings (Kathy Bates) and her husband Howard Givings (Richard Easton), and neighbor Milly Campbell (Kathryn Hahn) and her husband Shep (David Harbour).
To their friends, the Wheelers are the perfect couple, but their relationship is troubled.
April fails to make a career out of acting, while Frank hates the tedium of his work.
April wants new scenery and a chance to support the family so that Frank can find his passion.

April recalls how Frank talked about moving back to Paris.
With a failed career, she believes Paris is the solution to their problems, and she suggests they move.
Initially Frank laughs off the idea, but then begins considering it.
The only person who understands the Wheelers' decision is Helen's troubled son, John (Michael Shannon).
Frank admits to John that they indeed are running away from the "hopeless emptiness" of their repetitive lifestyle.

As the couple prepares to move, they are forced to reconsider.
Frank, propelled by a carefree attitude brought on by the thought of Paris, turns in a sarcastic piece of work to his boss.
To his surprise, his work is considered brilliant by company executives and he is offered a promotion.
April becomes pregnant again, and Frank discovers she is contemplating having an abortion.
He is furious and starts screaming at April, leading to a serious altercation.
April is desperate to move to Paris, but Frank is disgusted by the thought of abortion, causing him to feel that moving to Paris is an unrealistic dream.
The next day Frank takes the promotion and tries to accept his uneventful life.
At the end of an evening at a jazz bar with Milly and Shep, a car blocks in one of the cars the couples came in.
Milly is intoxicated and April suggests that Frank drive Milly home to release the babysitters at each house, while she and Shep wait for the blocking car's driver to return.
Shep and April re-enter the jazz bar, and eventually dance feverishly with each other, then have sexual intercourse in the car.
Shep professes his long-held love for April, but she rejects his interest.

The following day, Frank confesses to having had an affair with a female assistant at his office, hoping to reconcile with April.
To his surprise, April responds apathetically and tells him it does not matter as her love for him has gone, which he does not believe.
The Givingses come over for dinner, and Frank announces to the guests that their plans have changed, as April is pregnant.
John harshly lambasts Frank for crushing April's hope as well as his acceptance of his circumstances, accusing Frank of intentionally getting April pregnant to destroy the idea of moving to Paris, and saying that April allowed him to do it so that she would feel her husband was "a real man".
Frank gets angry, nearly attacks John, and the Givings hurry out.
Afterwards, Frank and April have a severe verbal altercation, after which April flees the house.

Frank spends the night in a drunken stupor but is shocked to find April in the kitchen the next morning, calmly making breakfast.
The couple have a pleasant breakfast, with April asking Frank about work and Frank seeming enthusiastic as he describes how the large computer purchase he is making will help many businesses.
April's mood seems to have improved, but after bidding goodbye to Frank, she breaks down and prepares to perform her own vacuum aspiration abortion, which proves fatal.
Shep goes to the hospital to support Frank, who hysterically tells him, "she did it to herself."
April dies in the hospital due to complications following the abortion.

A new couple, the Braces, buy the house and we hear Milly telling the story of the Wheelers to them, relating how Frank moved to the city and is still working with computers, devoting every spare moment of his life to his children.
Shep, harboring both sadness over April's death as well as guilt for his fling with her, quietly tells Milly he doesn't want to talk about the Wheelers anymore.
Milly agrees.

In the final scene, Helen tells Howard she thinks the Braces are the first people she has ever found suitable for the home.
Howard asks why she does not give credit to the Wheelers, and she says they were too whimsical, trying, and neurotic.
As she continues discussing what she did not like about the Wheelers, Howard, not wanting to be rude but really not wanting to hear any more either, turns off his hearing aid and Helen's voice fades out.