Doug Madsen (Tim Allen), Woody Stevens (John Travolta), Bobby Davis (Martin Lawrence), and Dudley Frank (William H. Macy) are four middle-aged suburban men living in a Cincinnati area suburb who find themselves frustrated with the pace of daily life and lack of adventure.
Doug is a dentist who has trouble relating to his son Billy (Dominic Janes), Dudley is a single computer programmer who is afraid to talk to women.
Bobby is a henpecked plumber whose wife has made him return to work after having taken a year off to unsuccessfully write a book, and Woody is a rich lawyer married to a supermodel.

When Woody finds out his wife is divorcing him and leaving him bankrupt, he suggests a motorcycle road trip to California to the others.
Dudley eagerly signs on, while Bobby lies to his wife about having to go to a plumber's convention out of town.
Meanwhile, Doug is reluctant to leave work, but when his wife agrees that he should stay home because of his age, he becomes upset and suffers what his doctor calls a "catecholamine-induced supra-ventricular tachyarrhythmia" (stress-induced panic attack).
This prompts Doug's wife to convince him to go on the trip.

Calling themselves the "Wild Hogs," the foursome encounter several misadventures during the first couple days of their ride, including Dudley accidentally burning their tent, two encounters with a gay highway patrolman, and an awkward moment at a lake when the foursome are skinny dipping and inadvertently frighten off a family who had planned to picnic and swim at the lake.
The men then stop at a roadside bar, where they meet the Del Fuego gang, headed by the tough biker Jack (Ray Liotta).
Jack calls the Wild Hogs "posers" and has his gang take Dudley's bike, forcing the men to leave with Dudley in a sidecar attached to Woody's bike.

Upset and humiliated by what just happened, Woody tries to convince the others to go back and get Dudley's bike.
The others refuse, so Woody sneaks back alone, cuts the fuel lines of the other bikes, and retrieves Dudley's bike.
Woody tells the others that he threatened to sue the Del Fuegos if they didn't give him Dudley's bike.
When the Del Fuegos hear the Wild Hogs riding back past the bar, they try to pursue them, only for the bikes to stall.
Jack accidentally drops his lit cigarette onto a line of fluid from where Woody cut the gas lines of the bikes, causing a chain reaction that blows up the bar.
Woody sees the bar explosion in his rear-view mirror, panics and convinces the others to keep riding instead of filling up at a nearby gas station, not realizing the next station isn't for another 200 miles.

The Wild Hogs run out of gas and end up in Madrid, New Mexico, where they stumble into a diner and help themselves to water and beer without first paying for the beer.
As a result, the townspeople first mistake them for the Del Fuego gang.
When the Wild Hogs explain their actions, they learn that the Del Fuegos have been terrorizing the town regularly, while the local police force, which has very little training and no guns, can't do anything to protect the town.
Although Woody is still antsy about the Del Fuegos, the others convince him to stay in the town overnight.
During their stay in the town, Dudley falls in love with Maggie (Marisa Tomei), the diner's owner, while two Del Fuegos spot the foursome and report their location to Jack.
Jack tells his scouts not to hurt the Wild Hogs until he gets there.
The Wild Hogs confront the scouts and, believing Woody's story, get the scouts to leave and are hailed as heroes.

The next day, a still-uneasy Woody finally convinces the others to leave, but then the entire Del Fuego gang shows up.
Jack threatens to wreak havoc on the town unless the Wild Hogs pay for the damage to the bar.
Woody admits what he really did to get Dudley's bike back as well as the real reason for the trip.
Jack takes over Maggie's diner, but when he threatens to burn it, Dudley confronts them and is captured.
The others join Dudley but are repeatedly beaten down.
The townspeople band together to confront the Del Fuegos, but just then Damien Blade (Peter Fonda), Jack's father and the founder of the Del Fuegos, arrives and orders the gang to back off.
Blade berates Jack for letting four "posers" hold off an entire biker gang, questioning aloud just which side was the "posers," and saying that the bar was merely an insurance scam and therefore he was glad that the Wild Hogs destroyed it.
Blade tells the Del Fuegos to leave town, and ride the open road until they remember what riding is really about, mentioning as he leaves that Jack "takes after his mother."

Doug and Bobby's wives arrive, and Doug reconciles with his son.
Bobby's wife orders him to return with her, but he refuses, finally standing up to her and convincing her to let him finish the ride.
The Wild Hogs leave, reaching California, and in a scene similar to one at the beginning of the movie, Dudley becomes distracted and nearly loses control of his bike.
This time, however, he keeps control, while the others, in an ironic twist, crash into a tandem surfboard.
While Dudley laughs and rides on.

In the end credits, it is revealed that the Wild Hogs had called Extreme Makeover: Home Edition to give the Del Fuegos a new bar to call home.
While most of the bike gang is ecstatic and grateful for their new home, Jack is shown only crying and not saying anything, most likely out of joy.
The scene ends with the Wild Hogs clicking their beer glasses together in glee.