Ali Rose (Christina Aguilera) moves to Los Angeles after she quits her job as a waitress at a bar in Iowa when her boss refuses to pay her.
Once in L.A., she tries and fails at every audition she goes on until one night, she finds herself unknowingly in a burlesque club when she hears the music on the street and catching a glimpse of one of the dancers on break.
She finds Tess (Cher) and the dancers performing “Welcome to Burlesque” and decides to pursue a career on stage once she meets Jack (Gigandet), a bartender at the club, who is also a song-writer.
Jack refers her to Tess for an audition, but is rejected instantly and ushered out by Sean (Tucci).
Instead of leaving, Ali begins serving customers at the club as a waitress, while Tess and Sean observe with Jack asking Tess to give Ali a chance and hire her as a waitress.

Ali takes the position, studying all the dance numbers while waiting tables.
Since she has no place to stay, Jack offers Ali his couch until she finds a place of her own.
Ali accepts, thinking Jack is gay.
Ali comes to find that Jack is not gay, and is engaged to Natalie (Agron), who is currently starring in a play in New York.
Ali feels uncomfortable staying with Jack knowing that he is not gay and leaves his apartment.
However, Jack receives a call from Natalie after Ali leaves, telling him that her play has been extended and she'll be gone for several more months.
Jack chases after Ali, asking her to stay and help him with the rent, to which Ali agrees—as long as she gets the bedroom.

When Georgia (Hough) becomes pregnant, auditions are held to replace her.
Ali begins her audition when everyone leaves, and after performing "Wagon Wheel Watusi", persuades Tess to allow her to become one of the club's dancers, much to the annoyance of Nikki (Bell), a arrogant and snobbish performer who is always late and caught drinking before numbers.
Although the club appears to be doing well, Tess is still unable to pay the bank and is at risk of losing the club, co-owned with Vince (Gallagher), Tess's ex-husband.
Meanwhile, a wealthy businessman, Marcus (Dane), who is also a regular customer and fan of Nikki's, has been trying to buy the club from Tess.
Tess refuses to sell, even though Vince thinks she's making a mistake.

On a night when Nikki has had too much to drink, Tess tells Ali that she will take Nikki's place, which infuriates Nikki the most.
In an attempt to sabotage Ali, and the show in general, Nikki tells the DJ that Tess needs to see him immediately.
When he leaves his booth, Nikki pulls a plug on the sound board, successfully interrupting the music and stopping the show.
Since all of the numbers are lip-synced, Tess tells Sean (Tucci), the club's manager, to lower the curtain, but Ali begins to sing the song herself.
The live band slowly begins to play along with her, leaving the entire club in awe of Ali's voice.
After the show, Tess praises Ali and tells everyone that she is going to rewrite the show around Ali, who will now sing live, believing that Ali is the ticket to boosting sales and getting her club out of debt.
This is also the time when Marcus takes notice of Ali.
Ali enjoys her newly found popularity; indulging in attention and expensive gifts from Marcus.

While Jack is still engaged to Natalie, there is obvious chemistry between Ali and Jack, and Jack becomes jealous of all the time she's been spending with Marcus, and eventually takes back his bedroom since she's never home anyway.
Tensions grow stronger when Ali antagonizes Jack about not finishing any of his songs, nor letting her hear any of them.
One night after the club closes, Tess, worried with the club's economic prospects, sings "You Haven't Seen the Last of Me".
A very jealous Nikki shows up drunk and picks a fight with Tess, calling Ali a "slut with mutant lungs".
Tess, who has grown frustrated with Nikki, questions her gratitude for the help she has received.
Angered, Nikki quits on the spot, and falsely confesses that she slept with Vince after his and Tess' honeymoon.
The altercation ends when Tess angrily retaliates by smashing the passenger side window on Nikki's convertible with a crowbar.

At Georgia's wedding, Jack appears to call off his engagement to Natalie while on the phone with her and winds up getting drunk.
That night, Ali and Jack sleep together, but the following morning Natalie returns unexpectedly from New York and tells Ali that she and Jack are still together.
Jack denies this, and while trying to fix things, he asks Ali to leave.
Feeling heartbroken and betrayed, Ali runs to Sean for support, who prompts her to go with Marcus after she receives a call from him.
Jack tracks Ali down at Sean's, but Sean tells him he's too late.

While spending time with Marcus, Ali learns about "air rights", which refers to buying the empty space above a building so that nothing can be built above a certain height.
Ali breaks things off with Marcus after she sees his plans to build a skyscraper on the property the club is on.
Ali returns to the club and tells Tess of Marcus's plans.
Together, they inform the owner of the new million-dollar condos across the street from the club that the million-dollar views he's been advertising will be ruined by the skyscraper that Marcus plans on building in the club's place if she sells to Marcus, unless he agrees to buy her air rights.
Fearing the loss of business that would result from the obstruction of his prospective tenants' view, he purchases the air rights to the club's property.

The resulting money is enough for Tess to buy out Vince's share, pay off the bank, and re-fashion the club to her own vision.
Nikki also reappears, apologizing to Tess and admitting she lied about sleeping with Vince.
Tess accepts her apology and rehires her.
Jack finds Ali in the dressing room preparing for a number and apologizes to her and tells her that it's over with Natalie and he wants to be with her.
Ali forgives him and the dancers perform one last number, "Show Me How You Burlesque", a song finally finished by Jack and sung by Ali.