The film is set in the Mid-Coast town of Camden, Maine.
Dr. Matt Fowler (Tom Wilkinson) and Ruth Fowler (Sissy Spacek) enjoy a happy marriage and a good relationship with their son Frank (Nick Stahl), a recent college graduate who has come home for the summer.
Frank has fallen in love with an older woman with children, Natalie Strout (Marisa Tomei).
Frank is also applying to graduate school for architecture, but is considering staying in town to work in the fishing industry and be near to Natalie.
Natalie's ex-husband, Richard Strout (William Mapother), whose family owns a local fish-processing and delivery business, is violent and abusive.
Richard tries to find a way into his ex-wife and son's lives, going to increasingly violent lengths to get his intentions across to Natalie.
Ruth is openly concerned about Frank's relationship with Natalie, while Matt sees past his wife's worries.

Midway through the film Richard kills Frank during a confrontation at Natalie's house, following a domestic dispute.
Though equally devastated, Matt and Ruth grieve in different ways with Matt putting on a brave face while Ruth becomes reclusive and quiet.
Richard is set free on bail, paid by his well-to-do family, and both Matt and Ruth are forced to see Richard around town.
The tension between the pair increases when they learn that the lack of a witness to their son's shooting allows the killer to avoid murder charges, since the district attorney may have difficulty proving that Richard killed Frank intentionally, as opposed to accidental manslaughter in a struggle which defense attorney Marla Keyes (Karen Allen) argues.
The silence between the couple erupts in an argument where each is confronted with the truth about each parent's relationship with their son: Ruth was overbearing and Matt let him get away with everything.
With the strain between them broken, the couple is finally able to find a common ground in their grief.

Matt abducts and kills Richard.
He and a friend then bury the body in the friend's woods.
Matt returns home to Ruth, who is awake and smoking in bed.
The first words out of her mouth are, "did you do it?"
Matt appears troubled and unresponsive.
He climbs into bed and then turns away from her.
Finally Ruth gets up and leaves to make coffee.
Matt rolls over onto his back and pulls a band-aid from a finger he injured hauling traps.
Ruth calls from the kitchen, "Matt, do you want coffee?"
But Matt doesn't answer, he just stares up at the ceiling as the smoke from Ruth's cigarette on the other side of the bed appears to rise out of his supine chest.