Starting in a small section of the near South, both James West and Marshall Artemus Gordon hunt for General "Bloodbath" McGrath, who is wanted for mass murder.
It points back to when McGrath ordered a massacre in a settlement called New Liberty, where many of the freed slaves were murdered, including West's biological parents.
The search leads to a brothel where the two try (unsuccessfully) to arrest him.
It leads to a huge brawl and a cart of nytroglycerin crashing into the building that starts a fire.
Both West and Gordon, the latter dressed as a woman, escape.
Later, in Washington, D.C., West and Gordon meet at the White House with President Ulysses S. Grant, who tells them about the disappearance of America's key scientists and a treasonous plot by General "Bloodbath" McGrath.
Grant charges the two with finding the scientists before he inaugurates the first transcontinental railroad at Promontory, Utah.

On board their train, Gordon examines the head of a murdered scientist and uses a projection device to reveal the last thing the scientist saw.
Finding McGrath and a clue in the image, they head to New Orleans, pursuing a lead about Dr. Arliss Loveless, an ex-Confederate scientist in a steam-powered wheelchair, who is hosting a party for the elite of Southern society.
West mistakes a female guest for a disguised Gordon and makes an error that results in the guests wanting to lynch West.
Meanwhile, Gordon roams the mansion and comes across a caged Rita Escobar, rescuing her.
Gordon frees West from the lynching with an elastic rope, and the three escape to their train The Wanderer.
On board, Rita asks for their help in rescuing her father, one of the kidnapped scientists, Professor Escobar.

Later, Loveless hosts a reception to demonstrate his newest weapon: a steam-powered tank.
The tank uses General McGrath's soldiers as target practice, which angers McGrath.
When McGrath demands an explanation, Loveless shoots him and leaves him for dead.
As Loveless and his troops head over to Utah, Gordon, West, and Rita find the dying McGrath, who reveals that he was framed by Loveless for the massacre of New Liberty, explaining that Loveless used the tank to kill the people there.
Gordon, West, and Rita then pursue Loveless on The Wanderer, but having expected their arrival and using steam powered hydraulics, Loveless maneuvers his train behind The Wanderer.
West manages to disable Loveless' train, but not before Loveless uses a cannon-launched grappling hook to stop The Wanderer.
Rita, afraid of being recaptured by Loveless, grabs one of Gordon's rigged pool balls and accidentally releases sleeping gas that knocks out West, Gordon, and herself.

West and Gordon wake up as Loveless and his posse pull away in The Wanderer taking Rita hostage, announcing that he intends to capture President Grant at the "golden spike" ceremony.
The two stumble across Loveless' private rail line, which leads them to his industrial complex, hidden in Spider Canyon.
Here, they witness Loveless's ultimate weapon: a gigantic mechanical spider armed with two nitroglycerin cannons.
Loveless uses the spider to capture President Grant and Gordon at the ceremony at Promontory Point, while West is seemingly shot to by one of Loveless' bodyguards.

At his industrial complex, Loveless reveals his plan: to destroy the United States with his mechanized forces unless President Grant agrees to divide the states among Great Britain, France, Spain, Mexico, and himself.
Loveless demands that President Grant surrender, but he refuses.
Loveless then tries to have Gordon shot in the head if Grant still refuses to surrender, but West, who had survived thanks to chain mail vest, disguises himself and manages to distract Loveless, allowing Gordon to free the captives.
Unfortunately, Loveless escapes in the ensuing battle, taking the President with him.

To save the President, Gordon and West build a flying machine to overtake the spider as Loveless attempts to force Grant to sign the surrender.
Gordon and West crash onto the spider, and a fight ensues between them and Loveless, now on mechanical legs.
Gordon shoots a hole in Loveless's hydraulic line, and all the oil drains from his legs, allowing West to gain the upper hand.
This allows Gordon and Grant to defeat the rest of Loveless' guards, and pleading for his life, Loveless drags himself back to his wheelchair as the spider approaches a cliff.
Loveless attempts to shoot West with a concealed gun, but hits the spider's control lines, stopping it just before it plunges into the canyon.
The abrupt stop leaves West and Loveless hanging precariously from the spider.
Loveless tries to decide whether he should pull the chair's lever that will release them or not, knowing it will send both him and West to their deaths if he does so.
Loveless taunts West so much, that West pulls the lever himself and survives by grabbing the ankles of a man hanging from a chain (West had thrown him out earlier), while Loveless falls to his death.

Grant promotes Gordon and West as Agent #1 and Agent #2 of his new U.S. Secret Service.
Gordon asks which of them is 1 and 2, but the President brushes of the question as unimportant and tells them they will have plenty of time to talk about on the way back.
(Since the president lost his train, he takes "The Wanderer" for the ride back) Gordon and West meet Rita again, both planning to court her, but she crushes their hopes, announcing that Professor Escobar is her husband, not her father.

The last scene of the film shows Gordon and West riding through the desert when Gordon asks West "Mind if I ask you a question?"
West correctly assuming he will ask who should be Agent 1 replys "Actually, I do, Artie."
The camera pans out to show they are actually riding the Mechanical Spider as they ride off into the sunset.