John Murdoch (Rufus Sewell) awakens in a hotel bathtub, suffering from amnesia.
He receives a telephone call from Dr. Daniel Schreber (Kiefer Sutherland), who urges him to flee the hotel to evade a group of men who are after him.
During the telephone conversation, John discovers the corpse of a brutalized, ritualistically murdered woman, along with a bloody knife.
Murdoch flees the scene, just as the group of men (known as the Strangers) arrive at the room.

Eventually Murdoch learns his real name, and finds he has a wife named Emma (Jennifer Connelly).
He is also sought by police inspector Frank Bumstead (William Hurt) as a suspect in a series of murders, though he cannot remember killing anybody.
While being pursued by the Strangers, Murdoch discovers that he has psychokinetic powers like them – referred to as "tuning" – and uses these powers to escape from them.

Murdoch explores the city, where it is perpetually night.
He sees people become temporarily comatose at midnight, when the Strangers stop time and physically rearrange the city as well as changing people's identities and memories.
Murdoch learns that he was originally from a coastal town called Shell Beach, though nobody knows how to leave the city to travel there.
Meanwhile, the Strangers inject one of their men, Mr. Hand (Richard O'Brien), with Murdoch's intended memories in an attempt to predict his movements and find him.

Murdoch is eventually caught by Bumstead, who recognizes that he is innocent, and has his own misgivings about the nature of the city.
They confront Dr. Schreber, who explains that the Strangers are endangered extraterrestrial parasites who use corpses as their hosts.
Having a collective consciousness, the Strangers have been experimenting with humans to analyze their individuality in the hopes that some insight might be revealed that would help their race survive.

Schreber reveals that Murdoch is an anomaly who inadvertently awoke during one midnight process, when Schreber was in the middle of fashioning his identity as a murderer.
The three embark to find Shell Beach, which ultimately exists only as a billboard at the edge of the city.
Frustrated, Murdoch breaks through the wall, revealing a hole into outer space.
The men are confronted by the Strangers, including Mr. Hand, who holds Emma hostage.
In the ensuing fight Bumstead, along with one of the Strangers, falls through the hole into space, revealing the city as an enormous space habitat surrounded by a force field.

The Strangers bring Murdoch to their home beneath the city and force Dr. Schreber to imprint Murdoch with their collective memory, believing Murdoch to be the final answer to their experiments.
Schreber betrays them by inserting false memories in Murdoch which artificially reestablish his childhood as years spent training and honing his psychokinetic abilities and learning about the Strangers and their machines.
Murdoch awakens, fully realizing his abilities, frees himself and battles with the Strangers, defeating their leader Mr. Book (Ian Richardson) in a psychokinetic fight high above the city.

After learning from Dr. Schreber that Emma's personality is gone and cannot be restored, Murdoch exercises his new-found powers through the Strangers' machine to create an actual Shell Beach by flooding the area within the force field with water and forming mountains and beaches.
On his way to Shell Beach, Murdoch encounters Mr. Hand and informs him that the Strangers have been searching in the wrong place — the mind — to understand humanity.
Murdoch tilts the entire habitat towards the sun, and the city experiences daylight for the first time.

He opens the door leading out of the city, and steps out to view the sunrise.
Beyond him is a pier, where he finds the woman he knew as Emma, now with new memories and a new identity as Anna.
Murdoch reintroduces himself as they walk to Shell Beach, beginning their relationship anew.