Monty Python Live at the Hollywood Bowl (1982) movie script - Screenplays for You
















var gaJsHost = (("https:" == document.location.protocol) ? "https://ssl." : "http://www.");
document.write(unescape("%3Cscript src='" + gaJsHost + "google-analytics.com/ga.js' type='text/javascript'%3E%3C/script%3E"));


try {
var pageTracker = _gat._getTracker("UA-11048248-1");
pageTracker._trackPageview();
} catch(err) {}



(function(w, c) {
    (w[c] = w[c] || []).push(function() {
        try {
            w.yaCounter2880262 = new Ya.Metrika(2880262);
             yaCounter2880262.clickmap(true);

        } catch(e) {}
    });
})(window, 'yandex_metrika_callbacks');


&lt;div style="position:absolute"&gt;&lt;img src="//mc.yandex.ru/watch/2880262" alt="" /&gt;&lt;/div&gt;





Screenplays for You - free movie scripts and screenplays

About   Links  








Screenplays and movie scripts organized alphabetically:#  A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  J  K  L  M  N  O  P  Q  R  S  T  U  V  W  X  Y  Z   PDF



<!--
google_ad_client = "pub-1850297377568722";
google_ad_slot = "6005341666";
google_ad_width = 728;
google_ad_height = 90;
//-->


Monty Python Live at the Hollywood Bowl (1982) movie scriptby Tim Brooke-Taylor, Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Marty Feldman, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Angus James, Terry Jones, David Lipscomb, Michael Palin.
More info about this movie on IMDb.com


20th
CENTURY
FROG

ARS GRATIA ARTIS

PRESENTS

STARRING
(ALPHABETICALLY)

GRAHAM CHAPMAN

INTERNATIONALLY
SUPER STARRING
(ALPHABETICALLY)

JOHN CLEESE

EXTRA-TERRESTIALLY
CO-SUPER
(ALSO ALPHABETICALLY)
STARRING

TERRY GILLIAM

SUPER-INTER-
GALACTICALLY
(A BIT ALPHABETICALLY)
CO MEGA STARRING

ERIC IDLE

SUPRA COSMICALLY
INTER-UNIVERSALLY
ULTRA ALPHABETICALLY
HYPER-STARRING

TERRY JONES

WITH

MICHAEL PALIN

AS THE MAN WITH THE
BIGGEST CREDIT

AND
SUPER ALPHABETICALLY
CO INTRODUCING
EXECUTIVE GUEST SUPERSTARS

NEIL INNES & CAROL CLEVELAND
AS THE YOUNG WINSTON CHURCHILLS

IN

HOLLYWOOD

MONTY PYTHON
LIVE AT THE
HOLLYWOOD BOWL


Men with bare bottoms:
Sit on my face, and tell me that you love me
I'll sit on your face and tell you I love you, too.
I love to hear you moralize
When I'm between your thighs
You blow me away

Sit on my face and let my lips embrace you
I'll sit on your face and let my love be truly.
Life can be fine if we're both 69
If we sit on our faces at losses of places and play
'Till we're blown away

Michael Palin: Hello, good evening and welcome to the Ronald Reagan Memorial Bowl, here in the pretty little L.A. suburb of 
Hollywood. Well, we're about to go in all for wrestling, brought to you tonight, ladies and gentlemen, by the makers of Scum, 
the world's first ever combined hair oil, foot ointment, and salad dressing. And the makers of Titan, the novelty nuclear 
missile! You never know when it'll go off! Surprise your friends, amuse your enemies, start the party with a bang! 
Introducing, ladies and gentlemen, tonight, all the way from a mudwrestling tour of the OPEC countries...in the red corner: 
Colin "Bomber" Harris!...and, ladies and gentlemen, in the blue corner...all the way from a mudwrestling tour of the OPEC 
countries...Colin "Bomber" Harris!
John Cleese: Well, now, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that Colin "Bomber" Harris has met himself. A few 
formalities now, any moment we're out, we'll be ready for the start of Round One. There goes the bell! Colin moves to the 
middle of the ring there, he's looking for an opening, going for the handhold...
Colin "Bomber" Harris: Augh!
John Cleese: He's got it! Into the headsqueeze...
Colin "Bomber" Harris: Augh!
John Cleese: A headsqueeze there...
Colin "Bomber" Harris: Augh!
John Cleese: A favorite...
Colin "Bomber" Harris: Augh!
John Cleese: ...a favorite move of Colin's ----...
Colin "Bomber" Harris: Augh!
John Cleese: ...flying there...
Colin "Bomber" Harris: Augh!
John Cleese: ...and already Colin is...
Colin "Bomber" Harris: Augh!
John Cleese: ...working on that weak left knee of his!
Colin "Bomber" Harris: Augh!
John Cleese: A half nelson...a half nelson and a Philadelphia Hamilton and Colin bit himself on purpose there, and he has been 
given a public warning by the referee, and Colin did not like that one little bit!
Colin "Bomber" Harris: Augh!
John Cleese: Double overhead nostril...
Colin "Bomber" Harris: Augh!
John Cleese: ...backkick and into the, ah, Boston crayfish, no, it's a crawlfish, or is it a longestine, no, it's a longestine! A 
lovely move there! He's caught himself by surprise and this is the first fall to Colin "Bomber" Harris! Swell! A lovely move 
there! And Colin must be pretty pleased with himself having put himself up with that one! A strawberry whip, a vanilla 
whip, a chocolate whip...there it is, Colin's most famous hold: the one-neck-over-shoulder-Gerry Ford and Colin's in real 
trouble! He's just made it to the rope...just a little lucky there...
Colin "Bomber" Harris: Augh!
John Cleese: ...and there it is, a double Eydie Gorm‚, should be able to twist...but he does...but he's looking pretty 
groggy...and I think he's caught himself ----. Colin "Bomber" Harris has knocked himself out and so he is the winner and he 
goes on next week to meet himself in the final!

Anti-rasist singer: 
Never be rude to an Arab
An Israeli or Saudi or Jew
Never be rude to an Irishman
No matter what you do

Never pull fun at a nigger
A Spic or a Wop or a Kraut
And never poke fun at a...[Boom]


Renaissance Choir: [Gregorian Chant]
Servant: A Michelangelo to see you, your Holiness.
Pope: Who?
Servant: Michelangelo, the famous renaissance artist whose best known works include the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, and 
the celebrated statue of David.
Pope: Ah. Very well...
Servant: In 1514 he returned to Florence and de...
Pope: All right, that's enough, that's enough, they've got it now!
Servant: Oh.
Michelangelo: Good evening, your Holiness.
Pope: Evening, Michelangelo. I want to have a word with you about this painting of yours, "The Last Supper."
Michelangelo: Oh, yeah?
Pope: I'm not happy about it.
Michelangelo: Oh, dear. It took me hours.
Pope: Not happy at all.
Michelangelo: Is it the jello you don't like?
Pope: No.
Michelangelo: Ah, no, I know, they do have a bit of colour, don't they? Oh, I know, you don't like the kangaroo?
Pope: What kangaroo?
Michelangelo: No problem, I'll paint him out.
Pope: I never saw a kangaroo!
Michelangelo: Uuh...he's right in the back. I'll paint him out! No sweat, I'll make him into a disciple.
Pope: Aah.
Michelangelo: All right?
Pope: That's the problem.
Michelangelo: What is?
Pope: The disciples.
Michelangelo: Are they too Jewish? I made Judas the most Jewish.
Pope: No, it's just that there are twenty-eight of them.
Michelangelo: Oh, well, another one will never matter, I'll make the kangaroo into another one.
Pope: No, that's not the point.
Michelangelo: All right. Well, I'll lose the kangaroo. Be honest, I wasn't perfectly happy with it.
Pope: That's not the point. There are twenty-eight disciples!
Michelangelo: Too many?
Pope: Well, of course it's too many!
Michelangelo: Yeah, I know that, but I wanted to give the impression of a real last supper. You know, not just any old last 
supper. Not like a last meal or a final snack. But you know, I wanted to give the impression of a real mother of a blow-out, 
you know?
Pope: There were only twelve disciples at the last supper.
Michelangelo: Well, maybe some of the others came along afterw...
Pope: There were only twelve altogether.
Michelangelo: Well, maybe some of their friends came by, you know?
Pope: Look! There were just twelve disciples and our Lord at the last supper. The Bible clearly says so.
Michelangelo: No friends?
Pope: No friends.
Michelangelo: Waiters?
Pope: No.
Michelangelo: Cabaret?
Pope: No!
Michelangelo: You see, I like them, they help to flesh out the scene, I could lose a few, you know I could...
Pope: Look! There were only twelve disciples at...
Michelangelo: I've got it! I've got it! We'll call it "The Last But One Supper"!
Pope: What?
Michelangelo: Well there must have been one, if there was a last supper there must have been a one before that, so this, is the 
"Penultimate Supper"! The Bible doesn't say how many people were there, does it?
Pope: No, but...
Michelangelo: Well there you are, then!
Pope: Look! The last supper is a significant event in the life of our Lord, the penultimate supper was not! Even if they had a 
conjurer and a mariachi band. Now, a last supper I commissioned from you, and a last supper I want! With twelve disciples 
and one Christ!
Michelangelo: One?!
Pope: Yes one! Now will you please tell me what in God's name possessed you to paint this with three Christs in it?
Michelangelo: It works, mate!
Pope: Works?
Michelangelo: Yeah! It looks great! The fat one balances the two skinny ones.
Pope: There was only one Redeemer!
Michelangelo: Ah, I know that, we all know that, what about a bit of artistic license?
Pope: A one Messiah is what I want!
Michelangelo: I'll tell you what you want, mate! You want a bloody photographer! That's you want. Not a bloody creative 
artist to crease you up...
Pope: I'll tell you what I want! I want a last supper with one Christ, twelve disciples, no kangaroos, no trampoline acts, by 
Thursday lunch, or you don't get paid!
Michelangelo: Bloody fascist!
Pope: Look! I'm the bloody pope, I am! May not know much about art, but I know what I like!

Anti-rasist singer :
Never be rude to a polack...[Boom]

John Cleese: Hello, and welcome to Munich, for the 27th Silly Olympiad, an event held traditionally every 3.7 years, which 
this year has brought together competitors from over 4 million different countries. And here we are at the start of the first 
event of the afternoon: the second semifinal of the 100 yards for people with no sense of direction.Aah, to see the 
competitors; Lane One: Kolomovski of Poland; Lane Two: Zatapatique of France; Lane Three: Gropovich of the United 
States, next to him: Drabble of Trinidad, next to him: Fernand‚z of Spain, and in the outside lane: Bormann of Brazil!
Starter: Get set!
Starter's Pistol: [Bang]
John Cleese: Well, that was fun, wasn't it? And now, over to the other end of the stadium. And here they're just waiting for 
the start of the 1500 meters for the deaf. And they're on the starter's orders.
Starter's Pistol: [Bang]
John Cleese: Well, we'll be coming back the moment there's any action. And now over to the swimming. And you join us here 
at the Bundesabsurd pool just in time to see the start of the 200 meters freestyle for non-swimmers. Watch for the top 
Australian champion Ron Barnett in the second lane.
Starter's Whistle: [Whistle]
Swimmers: [Splash]
John Cleese: Well, we'll be bringing you back here the moment they start fishing the corpses up. And now over to the ---- for 
the start of the marathon for incontinents. Well, we put in for this event 44 competitors from 29 different countries, all of 
them with the most superbly weak bladders. Not a tight slinter in sight. Ready to embark, nevertheless, on the world's longest 
race and they're just aching to go! 
Starter: On your marks! Get set!
Starter's Pistol: [Bang]
John Cleese: And they're off! They're off! Well... Well, back at the 1500 meters and the starter's putting up a magnificent 
show! We've had ---- scattered random fire, fuselage firing, ----. It's enough to make you chew your own foot off! And now 
the high jump! Katerina Ovelenskij, Soviet Union! But what a jump! What a jump! That ought to be a record! And here we 
are at the 3000 meter steeplechase for people who think they're chickens! There's Samuelsson of the United States, and over 
there is Klaus of East Germany! He's been a ---- for the last three olympics. ---- There's the leader, Abe Seagull of Canada ---- 
very good start ---- water jump, and has now gone loopy. Now we are back with the marathon for incontinents once again. 
There's Polinski of Poland in the lead, and-and now Brewer of Australia is taking over! ---- And so now it is Alvarez of Cuba, 
followed by the ---- Norwegian Borg, ----. Well, well, these must be some of the weakest bladders ever to represent their 
country! And now, let's have a look back at what's going on down on stage!


Bruce I: Good evening, ladies and bruces!
Bruce II: Hello, Bruce.
Bruce I: Hello, Bruce.
Bruce III: Hello, Bruce.
Bruce I: Hey, Bruce.
Bruce II: What's all this lot, Bruce?
Bruce I: It's very nice to be here at the Hollywood Bowl this evening! We're all philosophy professors from the University of 
Woolamaloa, Australia!
All Bruces: Hey, Australia, Australia, Australia! God love ya!
Bruce I: I teach Hegelian philosophy, Bruce here teaches Aristotolean philosophy, and Bruce here is in charge of the sheep 
dip.
Bruce II: [Cough] Bloody difficult work, I tell ya!
Bruce I: I'll tell you what is thirsty work watching this garn of human. Bruce, why don't you just stick out a few of these little 
free examples from your ----.
Bruce I: All right! Now, the reason we do this, ladies and bruces, is frankly over here we find your American beer is a little 
like making love in a canoe!
Bruce III: Making love in a canoe?
Bruce I: It's fucking close to water! Well now, we're going to try and raise the tone a little here by singing a nice intellectual 
song for for those two or three of you in the audience...
Bruce II: Right!
Bruce I: ...who understand these things. So, here we go!

All Bruces :
Immanuel Kant was a real pissant
Who was very rarely stable
Heidegger, Heidegger was a boozy beggar
Who could think you under the table
David Hume could out-consume
Schopenhauer and Hegel
And Wittgenstein was a beery swine
Who was just as sloshed as Schlegel
There's nothing Nietszche couldn't teach ya
'Bout the raising of the wrist
Socrates himself was permanently pissed

Bruce II: How do you like that? All right!
Bruce I: Let's hold it a second. I can see some of these bruces are in a bit of a playful mood tonight. Ain't that, Bruce?
Bruce II: Yeah, Bruce.
Bruce I: Some of the ones that don't have straws up their nose. Anyway, why don't we do something rather... Why don't we 
get some of these guys to sing along with us? ----.
Bruce II: Ok, I've got the words somewhere.
Bruce I: Right! Ready!
Bruce II: Right! Ready!

All Bruces & Audience :
Immanuel Kant was a real pissant
Who was very rarely stable

Bruce II: Heidegger, Heidegger was a boozy...
Bruce I: They're a typical Hollywood audience! All the kids are on drugs, and all the adults are on roller skates! Have we got 
any...have we got anything bigger to put the words up for these rather shortsighted people?
Bruce II: This is Bruce from the Biology Department.
Bruce I: All right. Okay, here we go.


All Bruces & Audience :
Immanuel Kant was a real pissant
Who was very rarely stable

Bruce II: Come on!

All Bruces & Audience :
Heidegger, Heidegger was a boozy beggar
Who could take you under the table
David Hume could out-consume
Schopenhauer and Hegel
And Wittgenstein was a beery swine
Who was just as sloshed as Schlegel
There's nothing Nietszche couldn't teach ya
'Bout the raising of the wrist
Socrates himself was permanently pissed
John Stuart Mill of his own free will
On half a pint of shandy was particularly ill
Plato they say could stick it away 
Half a crate of whiskey every day
Aristotle, Aristotle was a buggar for the bottle
Hobbes was fond of his Dram
And Rene Descartes was a drunken fart
"I drink, therefore I am !"
Yes Socrates himself is particularly missed
A lovely little thinker
But a bugger when he's pissed

Silly Walks Director: Good morning. I'm sorry to have kept you waiting, but I'm afraid my walk has become rather silly over 
these months, so it takes so long to get to the office. Now,uhm, what was it again?
Silly Walks Applicant: Uh, well sir, I-I-I I have got a silly walk and I'd like to obtain government backing to help me develop 
it.
Silly Walks Director: I see. Well, may I see this silly walk of yours?
Silly Walks Applicant: Oh, yes, certainly.
Silly Walks Director: Yes, I see, tha-tha-that's it, is it?
Silly Walks Applicant: Ah, well, yes, that's it.
Silly Walks Director: Yes, yes, yes. It's not particularly silly, is it?
Silly Walks Applicant: Well, ah-ah...
Silly Walks Director: I mean, the left leg isn't silly at all and the right leg merely does a four dare O'Brian half turn every 
alternate step.
Silly Walks Applicant: Yes, but I feel with a federal grant I could make it a lot more silly.
Silly Walks Director: Mr. Stagback, the very real problem is what I find out. You see, there's defense, education, housing, 
health, social security, silly walks. They're all supposed to get the same. But last year the government spent less on Silly 
Walks than they did on industrial organisation. We're supposed to get 348 millions pounds a year to cover our entire Silly 
Walks proposal. Coffee?
Silly Walks Applicant: Yes, please.
Silly Walks Director: Hello, uh, Mrs. Twolumps, uhm, could we have two cups of coffee, please.
Mrs. Twolumps: Yes, Mr. Teabag.
Silly Walks Director: Mad as a hatter. You see, the Israelis they have a man who can take his own left leg off and swallow it 
with every alternate step, whereas the Japanese, cunning electronically obsessed little...
Mrs. Twolumps' tray: [Splash]
Silly Walks Director: Yes, thank you, Mrs. Twolumps. You're...you're really interested in silly walks, aren't you?
Silly Walks Applicant: Right there!
Silly Walks Director: Right, well, take a look at this!


Barrister I: Ooh, that bit of a morning in the high court!
Barrister II: Oh, oh!
Barrister I: Oh, I could stamp my little feet at the way those counsels are carrying on.
Barrister II: Oh, don't tell me, love.
Barrister I: Oh, dear, objection here, objection there. And that nice policeman giving his evidence so well!
Barrister II: Oh, ah.
Barrister I: Beautiful speaking voice.
Barrister II: And what a body!
Barrister I: Oh, yeah
Barrister II: Oh, yeah. Ooh, ah.
Barrister I: Well, after a bit all I could do was bang me gavel.
Barrister II: You what, love?
Barrister I: I banged me gavel!
Barrister II: Oh, get away!
Barrister I: I did!
Barrister II: Ooh!
Barrister I: I did my "silence in court" bit.
Barrister II: Oh.
Barrister I: If looks could have killed, that prosecuting counsel would have been in for thirty years.
Barrister II: Hum-hum!
Barrister I: How did your summing-up go?
Barrister II: Uh, well, I did my box voice, you know, "what the jury must understand", and they loved it!
Barrister I: Ah.
Barrister II: I could see that little curly-headed foreman of the jury eyeing me!
Barrister I: Really?
Barrister II: Oh, yeah. Cheating devil. I finished up with, I got really strict: "The actions of these vicious men are a violent 
state upon the community and the four pounds of the law is scarcely sufficient to deal with their ghastly crimes!"
Barrister I: Oh, yeah?
Barrister II: And I waggled me wig! Whoaaoha!
Barrister I: You waggled you what?
Barrister II: I waggled me wig!
Barrister I: Really?
Barrister II: Ah, the only thing I waggled!
Barrister I: Ooh...
Barrister II: Ever so slightly, stood in effect.
Barrister I: Ooh!
Barrister II: Anyway, I gave him three years. Merely took ten minutes.
Barrister I: Ooh...well, as I said to Melvin Belly the other day, you know: "You can put it in the hand of your attorneys, but 
it'll never stand up in court!"

               GRAOO               SKRIG               ARGH
               FULG               SKRIG               MUCK
               NOW               SKRIG               GLAR

[Thus spake Zarathustra op. 30 - Richard Strauss]


WORLD FORUM

Eric Idle: Good evening. Tonight on World Forum we are deeply privileged to have with us Karl Marx, the founder of modern 
socialism and author of the Communist Manifesto, Vladimir Ilitj Ulyanov, better known to the world as Lenin, leader of the 
Russian Revolution, writer, statesman, and father of modern socialism, Che Guevara, the Bolivian guerilla leader, and Mao 
Tse-tung, chairman of the Chinese Communist Party since 1949. And the first question is for you, Karl Marx. "The 
Hammers." "The Hammers" is the nickname of what English football team? "The Hammers." No? Well, bad luck, Karl. It is, 
in fact, West Ham United. Now, Che Guevara. Che... Coventry City last won the English football cup in what year? No? I 
can tell no further question. Anybody else? Coventry City last won the English Football Cup in what year? No, I'm not 
surprised you didn't get that. It is in fact a trick question. Coventry City have never won the English Football Cup. So now 
with the scores all even, it's on to Round 2, and Lenin, you start at the $10. Jerry Lee Lewis has had over 17 major solid gold 
hits in the U.S. of A. What's the name of the biggest? Jerry Lee Lewis' solid gold biggie? No?
Mao Tse-tung's buzzer: [Buzz]
Eric Idle: Yes, Mao Tse-tung?
Mao Tse-tung: "Great Balls of Fire?"
Eric Idle: Yes, it was indeed! Very well challenged. Well, now we come on to our third round. Our contestant tonight is Karl 
Marx and our special prize is this beautiful lounge suite! Uh, Karl has elected to answer questions on workers' control of 
factories, so here we go with question number one. You, nervous, Karl? Just a little. Well, never mind pal, have a go! The 
development of the industrial proletariat is conditioned by what other development?
Karl Marx: The development of the industrial bourgeoisie.
Eric Idle: Good! Yes, it is indeed! Well done, Karl! You're on your way to a lounge suite! Now Karl, number two. The 
struggle of class against class is a what struggle?
Karl Marx: A political struggle.
Eric Idle: Good! Yes, it is indeed. Well done, Karl! One final question, and that beautiful non-materialistic lounge suite will be 
yours! Ready, Karl? You're a brave man. Your final question: Who won the English Football Cup in 1949?
Karl Marx: Uhuh, the workers' control of means of production? The-the struggle of the urban proletariat?
Eric Idle: Uh, no, it was Wolverhampton Wanderers who beat Lester 3-1.
Karl Marx: Oh, shit!
Eric Idle: Get out of here! Well, no one leaves this show empty-handed, so we're gonna cut off his hands. Well, now it's talent 
spotting time, ladies and gentlemen, and please see if you can spot any talent in our next competitors? Will you please give a 
very big hand and a warm welcome to Carl Weetabix and Rita!

Carl Weetabix :
I'm the urban spaceman, baby, I've got speed, I've got everything I need
I'm the urban spaceman, baby, I couldn't fly, I'm a supersonic guy
I don't need pleasure, I don't feel pain, if you were to knock me down, I'd just get up again
I'm the urban spaceman, baby, I'm making out, I'm all about
I wake up every morning with a smile upon my face
My natural exuberance spills out all over the place
I'm the urban spaceman, baby, I'm intelligent and clean, know what I mean
I'm the urban spaceman, as you lovers second to none, it's a lot of fun
I never let my friends down, I could have made a boop
I'm a glossy magazine, an advert on the tube
I'm the urban spaceman, baby, here comes the twist
I don't exist


WHIZZO

Constable: Mr. Hilton?
Mr. Hilton: Ah, yes.
Constable: You are sole proprietor and owner of the Whizzo Chocolate Company?
Mr. Hilton: I am.
Constable: Constable Parrot and I are from the Hygiene Squad...
Mr. Hilton: Oh, yes.
Constable: ...and we'd like to have a word with you about your box of chocolates entitled "The Whizzo Quality Assortment."
Mr. Hilton: Ah, good, yes.
Constable: If I may begin at the beginning. First, there is the Cherry Fondue. Now this is extremely nasty, but we can't 
prosecute you for that!
Mr. Hilton: Agreed.
Constable: Next we have number four, "Crunchy Frog."
Mr. Hilton: Ah, yes.
Constable: Am I right in thinking there's a real frog in here?
Mr. Hilton: Yes, a little one.
Constable: Is it cooked?
Mr. Hilton: No.
Constable: What? A raw frog?
Mr. Hilton: We use only the finest baby frogs, due picked and flown from Iraq, cleansed in the finest quality spring water, 
lightly killed, and sealed in a ---- treble milk chocolate envelope, and lovingly frosted with glucose!
Constable: That's as maybe, but it's still a frog!
Mr. Hilton: What else would it be?
Constable: What! Don't even take the bones out?
Mr. Hilton: If we took the bones out, it wouldn't be crunchy, would it?
Constable: Constable Parrot ate one of those!
Constable Parrot: Would you excuse me for a moment, sir?
Constable: Yes.
Mr. Hilton: Well, it says "Crunchy Frog" quite clearly.
Constable: They'll never mind that. We have to protect the public. People aren't going to think there's a real frog in chocolate. 
The superintendent thought it was ----. They're bound to think it's some sort of mock frog.
Mr. Hilton: Mock frog?! We use no artificial preservatives or additives of any kind!
Constable: Nevertheless, I advise you to in future change the words "Crunchy Frog" with the legend "Crunchy, raw, unboned, 
real, dead frog" if you want to avoid prosecution.
Mr. Hilton: What about our sales?
Constable: I don't give a damn about your sales. We have to protect the public! Now, what was this one? Number five. It was 
number five, wasn't it? Number five: "Ram's Bladder Cup!" Now what kind of confection is this?
Mr. Hilton: We use choice ---- juicy chunks of fresh Cornish ram's bladder, emptied, steamed, flavored with sesame seeds, 
whipped into a fondue, and garnished with larks' vomit!
Constable: Larks' vomit?
Mr. Hilton: Correct.
Constable: It doesn't say anything down here about larks' vomit!
Mr. Hilton: Ah, yes, it does, on the bottom of the box, after monosodium glutamate.
Constable: I hardly think this is good enough! It would be more appropriate if the box bore a big red label. "Warning: Larks' 
Vomit!"
Mr. Hilton: Our sales would plummet!
Constable: Well, why don't you move into more conventional areas of confectionery, like praline or lime cream, a very 
popular flavor I'm met to understand, or Strawberry Delight? I mean, what's this one? "Cockroach Cluster?" And this, 
"Anthrax Ripple?"
Constable Parrot: [Vomit]
Constable: And what's this one, "Spring Surprise?"
Mr. Hilton: Aaah, that's our speciality! Covered in darkest, dowdy, smooth chocolate, when you pop it in your mouth, 
stainless steel bolts sprint out and punch straight through both cheeks!
Constable: If people pop a nice chocky in their mouth they don't expect to get their cheeks pierced! In any case, it is an 
inadequate description of the sweet in it! I shall have to ask you to accompany me to the station.
Mr. Hilton: It's a fair cop.
Constable: And don't talk to the audience!

WHIZZO


INTERMISSION

Albatross Woman: Albatross! Albatross! Albatross! You're not supposed to be smoking that! Albatross! Don't take them!
American: What flavor is it? What flavor is it?
Albatross Woman: Seagullsickle! Pelican-bonbon! Albatross!
Man with hat: Could I have... Could I have two icecreams, please?
Albatross Woman: I haven't got any icecreams, I just got this albatross!
Man with hat: Uh...
Albatross Woman: Albatross!
Man with hat: Uh, what flavor is it?
Albatross Woman: Well, it is an albatross, isn't it? There's no bloody flavor! Albatross!
Man with hat: There's gotta be some flavor, I mean everything's got a flavor...
Albatross Woman: All right, all right! It's bloody albatross flavor! Bleedin' seabird, bleedin' flavor! Albatross!
Man with hat: Do you get wafers with it?
Albatross Woman: Of course you don't have fucking wafers with it, you cunt! It's a fucking albatross, I mean...
Graham Chapman: Stop that! Stop that! It's filthy! Hold on! Right now, we need you! The one in the black, we need you for 
another skit on stage. And you, get off! You're not even a proper woman!
Albatross Woman: Don't you oppress me, mate!
Graham Chapman: What are you trying to do? Avoid registration or something?
Albatross Woman: Bleedin' sexist!
Graham Chapman: Come on, we need you for a skit! No one enjoys a good laugh more than I do. Except perhaps for my wife 
and some of her friends. Oh, yes, and Captain Johnson. Come to think of it, most people enjoy a good laugh more than I do, 
but that's beside the point. Right! Let's get on with this skit! Where's the other person for this skit? Right, you want to sit in 
that chair? And...cue...the...skit!

Man: Evening, squire!
Man with hat: Good evening.
Man: Is your...is your wife a goer? Eh? Know what I mean? Know what I mean? Nudge, nudge! Know what I mean? Say no 
more!
Man with hat: I-I...I beg your pardon?
Man: Your...your wife. Does she go,eh? Does she go, eh? Eh?
Man with hat: Huh, sometimes she has to go, yes.
Man: I bet she does! I bet she does! Say no more! Say no more! Know what I mean? Nudge, nudge!
Man with hat: I'm afraid I don't quite follow you...
Man: Oh, "follow me, follow me"? That's good, that's very good! A nod's as good as a wink to a blind bat!
Man with hat: Are...are you selling something?
Man: "Selling, selling"...very good indeed! You're wicked, you are, eh? Wicked, eh? Ho-ho-ho! Whoa! Wicked! Say no more!
Man with hat: Huhuh?
Man: Whoa! So your wife's interested in...in sport? Eh?
Man with hat: Ah, she likes sport, yes.
Man: I bet she does! I bet she does!
Man with hat: As a matter of fact, she's very fond of cricket.
Man: She likes "games", eh? Likes "games"? Knew she would, she's been around a bit, eh? She's been around?
Man with hat: Well, she has travelled, yes. She's from Glendale.
Man: Say no more! Glendale, squire? Say no more! Say no more! Say no more! Say no more!
Man with hat: Well...
Man: Whoa! Is your...is your Glendale wife interested in...photography? Eh? Eh? Eh?
Man with hat: Photography?
Man: "Photographs, eh?" he asked him knowingly!
Man with hat: Photography?
Man: Snap, snap, grin, grin, wing, wing, nudge, nudge, say no more!
Man with hat: Sort of...holiday snaps, eh?
Man: They could be, they could be taken on holiday, you know! Swimming costumes, candid...you know, "candid" 
photography?
Man with hat: No, we don't have a camera!
Man: Ah. Still, whoahaah! Eh? Whoahaah! Eh? Whoahaah! Eh? Whoahaahaha! Huhuh!
Man with hat: Look, are you insinuating something?
Man: Oh, no, no, no...yes!
Man with hat: Well?
Man: Why, I mean, you're a man of the world, squire, you know...you're...you've been around, you know?
Man with hat: What do you mean?
Man: Well, I mean, like, you've...you know, you...like...you've done it, you know...you've slept...with a lady?
Man with hat: Yes.
Man: What's it like?


INTERNATIONAL PHILOSOPHY

GERMANY
vs.
GREECE

Man: Good afternoon, and welcome to a packed Olympic stadium in Munchen for the second leg of this exciting final. And 
here comes the Germans now, led by their skipper "Lobby" Hegel. They must truly be favorites this afternoon. They've 
certainly attracted the most attention from the press with their team problems. And let's now see their line-up :

DEUTSCHLAND
                         1  LEIBNIZ
                         2  I.KANT
                         3  HEGEL
                         4  SCHOPENHAUER
                         5  SCHELLING
                         6  BECKENBAUER
                         7  JASPERS
                         8  SCHLEGEL
                         9  WITTGENSTEIN
                         10 NIETZSCHE
                         11 HEIDEGGER

Man: The Germans playing 4-2-4, Leibniz in goal, back four Kant, Hegel, Schopenhauer, and Schelling, front runners Schlegel, 
Wittgenstein, Nietzsche, and Heidegger, and the midfield duo of Beckenbauer and Jaspers. Beckenbauer obviously a bit of a 
surprise there. And here come the Greeks, led off by their veteran centerhalf Herakleitos. Let's look at their team :
GRIECHENLAND
                         1 PLATO
                         2 EPIKTET
                         3 ARISTOTELES
                         4 SOPHOKLES
                         5 EMPEDOKLES VON ACRAGA
                         6 PLOTIN
                         7 EPIKUR
                         8 HERAKLIT
                         9 DERAKLIT
                         10 SOKRATES
                         11 ARKIMEDES

Man: As it's expected it's a much more defensive line-up. Plato's in goal, Socrates is a front runner there, and Aristotle as 
sweeper. Aristotle, very much the man in form. One surprise is the inclusion of Archimedes. Well, here comes the referee: 
Con-Fu-Cu, Confucius and his two linesmen, St. Augustian and St. Thomas Acquinus. And as the two skippers come 
together to shake hands we're ready for the start of this very exciting final.. The referee, Mr. Confucius, checks his hand...
Referee's Whistle: [Whistle]
Man: ...and...they're off! Nietzsche and Hegel there, old Jaspers ---- on the outside, Wittgenstein there with him, there's 
Beckenbauer, Schelling there, Heidegger covering, Schopenhauer, and now it's the Greeks. Epikuros, we find him number six, 
Aristotle, Empedokles and Deraklites, and Demokrites with him, there's Archimedes, Socrates, there he is, Socrates, Socrates 
there going through...there's the ball, there's the ball. We'll be bringing you back to this exciting contest the moment anything 
interesting happens.

GERMANY 0     GREECE 0


Eric Idle: Very fussable, isn't it? Very fussable.
All: Right, all right.
Graham Chapman: Good glass of Chƒteau de Chasselas, ain't just that, sire?
Terry Jones: Oh, you're right there, Obadiah.
Graham Chapman: Right.
Eric Idle: Who would have thought, thirty years ago, we'd all be sitting here drinking Chateau de Chaselet, eh?
All: Aye, aye.
Michael Palin: Them days we were glad to have the price of a cup of tea.
Graham Chapman: Right! A cup of cold tea!
Michael Palin: Right!
Eric Idle: Without milk or sugar!
Terry Jones: Or tea!
Michael Palin: In a cracked cup and all.
Eric Idle: Oh, we never used to have a cup! We used to have to drink out of a rolled-up newspaper!
Graham Chapman: The best we could manage was to suck on a piece of damp cloth.
Terry Jones: But you know, we were happy in those days, although we were poor.
Michael Palin: Because we were poor!
Terry Jones: Right!
Michael Palin: My old dad used to say to me: "Money doesn't bring you happiness, son!"
Eric Idle: He was right!
Michael Palin: Right!
Eric Idle: I was happier then and I had nothing! We used to live in this tiny old tumbled-down house with great big holes in 
the roof.
Graham Chapman: House! You were lucky to live in a house! We used to live in one room, all twentysix of us, no furniture, 
half the floor was missing, we were all huddled together in one corner for fear of falling.
Terry Jones: You were lucky to have a room! We used to have to live in the corridor!
Michael Palin: Oh, we used to dream of living in a corridor! Would have been a palace to us! We used to live in an old 
watertank on a rubbish tip. We'd all woke up every morning by having a load of rotten fish dumped all over us! House, huh!
Eric Idle: Well, when I say a house, it was just a hole in the ground, covered by a sheet of tarpaulin, but it was a house to us!
Graham Chapman: We were evicted from our hole in the ground. We had to go and live in a lake!
Terry Jones: You were lucky to have a lake! There were 150 of us living in a shoebox in the middle of the road!
Michael Palin: A cardboard box?
Terry Jones: Aye!
Michael Palin: You were lucky! We lived for three months in a rolled-up newspaper in a septic tank! We used to have to go 
up every morning, at six o'clock and clean the newspaper, go to work down the mill, fourteen hours a day, week in, week out, 
for six pence a week, and when we got home, our dad would slash us to sleep with his belt!
Graham Chapman: Luxury! We used to have to get up out of the lake at three o'clock in the morning, clean the lake, eat a 
handful of hot grubble, work twenty hours a day at mill, for two pence a month, come home, and dad would beat us around 
the head and neck with a broken bottle, if we were lucky!
Terry Jones: Well, of course, we had it tough! We used to have to get up out of the shoebox in the middle of the night, and 
lick the road clean with our tongues! We had to eat half a handful of freezing cold grubble, work twenty-four hours a day at 
mill for four pence every six years, and when we got home, our dad would slice us in two with a breadknife!
Eric Idle: Right! I had to get up in the morning, at ten o'clock at night, half an hour before I went to bed, eat a lump of cold 
poison, work twenty-nine hours a day down mill and pay millowner for permission to come to work, and when we got home, 
our dad would kill us and dance about on our graves, singing Hallelujah!
Michael Palin: Aah. Are you trying to tell the young people of today that, and they won't believe you!
All: No, no they won't!


SPORTS UPDATE

Man: Well, there may be no score, but there's certainly no lack of excitement here, as you can see, Nietzsche has just been 
booked for arguing with the referee. He accused Confucius of having no free will, and Confucius he say name going book, and 
this is Nietszche's third booking in four games.
Whistle: [Phuiiih]
Man: And, oh, that is Karl Marx. Karl Marx is warming up, it looks as if it is going to be a substitution on the German side. 
Obviously manager Martin Luther has decided on all-out attack and indeed he must, with only two minutes of the match to 
go. But the big question is: Who is going to be replaced? Who is gonna come off? It could be Jaspers, Hegel or Schopenhauer. 
But it's Wittgenstein! Wittgenstein ---- only last week! And here's Marx! Let's see if he can put some light in this German 
attack. Evidently not. What a shame. Well, now, with just over a minute left, replay on Tuesday looks absolutely vital. 
There's Archimedes, and I think he's had an idea!
Archimedes: Heureka!
Man: Archimedes out to Socrates, Socrates back to Archimedes, Archimedes out to Herakleitos, he beat Hegel, Herakleitos is 
a little flick, here comes on the bardboard Socrates, Socrates is there! It is in! The Greeks are going... the Greeks are going 
mad! The Greeks are going there, Socrates scores, beautiful----the Germans are disputing it! Hegel is arguing that reality is 
merely a ---- ethics, Kant by the categoric imperative is holding that ultimologically possessed only in the imagination and 
Marx is claiming it was off-side! But Confucius blows the final whistle...it's all over! Germany, having chanced England's 
famous midfield trio Vincent, Mogalov in the semifinal, have been beaten by the odd goal! And that's it again! There it is, 
Socrates, Socrates heads it in, and Leibniz somehow has no chance! And just look at those delighted Greeks! There they are, 
chopper Sokrates, Empedokles, and Deraklites! What a game here! And Epikuros is there, and Sokrates, the captain who 
scored what must probably be the most important goal of his career!

Customer's finger pressing the secretary's breast nipple as if it were a bell: [Buzz]
Secretary: Ooh! Good afternoon, sir. May I help you?
Customer: Yes, I'd like to have an argument, please.
Secretary: Certainly, sir. Uhm, have you been here before?
Customer: Ah, no, this is my first time.
Secretary: I see. Well, do you want to have just one argument or were you thinking of taking a course?
Customer: Well, uh, what is the cost?
Secretary: Yes, it's one pound for a five-minute argument, but only eight pounds for a course of ten.
Customer: Well, I think I'll just try the one and see how it goes from there.
Secretary: Fine. Ah, yes, try Mr. Barnard, Room 12.
Customer: Thank you very much.
Mr. Barnard: What do you want?
Customer: Well, I just was...
Mr. Barnard: Don't give me that, you snorty-faced pair of parrot droppings! Shut your festering gob, you tit! Your type 
make me puke, you vacuous ---- stuffing old malodrious pervert!
Customer: Listen, I came here for an argument!
Mr. Barnard: Oh, oh, I'm sorry, but this is Abuse!
Customer: Oh, oh, I see!
Mr. Barnard: Hahaha!
Customer: Terribly sorry.
Mr. Barnard: No, you want Room 12A, next door.
Customer: Oh, I see. Thank you very much.
Mr. Barnard: Not at all.
Customer: Uhuh!
Mr. Barnard: Stupid git...
Customer: Uh, is this the right room for an argument?
Argumentator: I told you once.
Customer: Uh, no, you haven't.
Argumentator: Yes, I have.
Customer: When?
Argumentator: Just now.
Customer: No, you didn't.
Argumentator: Yes, I did.
Customer: You didn't!
Argumentator: I did.
Customer: No, you didn't!
Argumentator: I'm telling you I did!
Customer: You most certainly did not!
Argumentator: Ah, wait a moment, is this the five-minute argument or the full half hour?
Customer: Oh, oh, I see. Just the five-minute.
Argumentator: Just the five minutes... Right, thank you. Anyway, I did.
Customer: Oh, no, you didn't.
Argumentator: Now let's get one thing absolutely clear. I most definitely told you.
Customer: No, you didn't.
Argumentator: Yes, I did.
Customer: No, you didn't.
Argumentator: Yes, I did.
Customer: No, you didn't.
Argumentator: Yes, I did.
Customer: No, you didn't.
Argumentator: Yes, I did.
Customer: No, you didn't.
Argumentator: Yes, I did.
Customer: No, you didn't.
Argumentator: Yes, I did.
Customer: No, you didn't.
Argumentator: Yes, I did.
Customer: No, you didn't.
Argumentator: Yes, I did.
Customer: No, you didn't.
Argumentator: Yes, I did.
Customer: No, you didn't.
Argumentator: Yes, I did.
Customer: Oh, look, this isn't an argument!
Argumentator: Yes, it is!
Customer: No, it isn't! It's just contradiction!
Argumentator: No, it isn't!
Customer: It is!
Argumentator: It is not!
Customer: It is! You just contradicted me!
Argumentator: I did not!
Customer: You did!
Argumentator: No, no, no!
Customer: You did just that!
Argumentator: Nonsense!
Customer: Oh, this is futile!
Argumentator: No, it isn't.
Customer: Yes, it is. I came here for a good argument.
Argumentator: No, you didn't. You came here for an argument.
Customer: Yes, but an argument isn't just contradiction!
Argumentator: Well, can be.
Customer: No, an argument is a connected series of statements intended to establish a proposition.
Argumentator: No, it isn't!
Customer: Yes, it is! It isn't just contradiction!
Argumentator: Look, if I argue with you, I must take a contrary position.
Customer: Yes, but that isn't just saying "No, it isn't!"
Argumentator: Yes, it is!
Customer: No, it isn't!
Argumentator: Yes, it is!
Customer: No, it isn't!
Argumentator: Yes, it is!
Customer: No, it isn't!
Argumentator: Yes, it is!
Customer: No, it isn't!
Argumentator: Yes, it is!
Customer: Argument is an intellectual process. Contradiction is just a automatic gain-say of anything the other person says!
Argumentator: It is not!
Customer: It is!
Argumentator: Not at all!
Customer: Now look...
Bell: [Pling]
Argumentator: Thank you! Good morning!
Customer: What?
Argumentator: That's it! Good morning!
Customer: I was just getting interested!
Argumentator: Uh, I'm sorry, the five minutes is up!
Customer: That was never five minutes, just now!
Argumentator: I'm afraid it was.
Customer: Oh, no, it wasn't.
Argumentator: I'm sorry, I'm...I'm not allowed to argue anymore.
Customer: What?
Argumentator: If you want me to go on arguing, you'll have to pay for another five minute.
Customer: But that was never five minutes, just now!
Argumentator: [Whistle]
Customer: Oh, come on! Oh, this is ridiculous!
Argumentator: If you want me to go on arguing, you'll have to pay for another five minutes!
Customer: Oh, all right. Here you are.
Argumentator: Thank you.
Customer: Well?
Argumentator: Well what?
Customer: That was never five minutes, just now!
Argumentator: I told you, if you want me to go on arguing, you'll have to pay for another five minutes.
Customer: Yes, yes, well, I've just paid!
Argumentator: No, you didn't!
Customer: I did!
Argumentator: You did not!
Customer: I did!
Argumentator: You never...
Customer: I did!
Argumentator: You never...
Customer: I did!
Argumentator: You never...
Customer: I did!
Argumentator: You never...
Customer: I did!
Argumentator: You never...
Customer: Oh, what are we even arguing about!
Argumentator: Well, I'm very sorry, but you didn't pay!
Customer: Aha! But if I didn't pay, why are you arguing? Ahaaa! Got you!
Argumentator: No, you haven't.
Customer: Yes, I have. If, you're arguing, I must have paid.
Argumentator: Not necessarily. I could be arguing in my spare time.
Customer: Oh, I've had enough of this!
Argumentator: No, you haven't!
Customer: Yes, I have!
Argumentator: No, you haven't!
Customer: Yes, I have!
Argumentator: No, you haven't!
Customer: Yes, I have!
Argumentator: No, you haven't!
Customer: Yes, I have!
Argumentator: No, you haven't!
Customer: Yes, I have!
Argumentator: No, you haven't!
Customer: Yes, I have!
Argumentator: No, you haven't!
Customer: Yes, I have!
Argumentator: No, you haven't!
Customer: Yes, I have!
Argumentator: No, you haven't!
Customer: Yes, I have!
Argumentator: No, you haven't!
Fat Man: Whoa!

Fat Man :
I've got two legs from my hips to the ground
And when I lift them they walk around
And when I lift them they climb the stairs
And when I shave them they ain't got hairs

Argumentator's rifle: [Bang]
Fat Man: Aaargh!


Singer :
How sweet to be an idiot
As harmless as a cow
Too small to hide the sun
Almost poking fun
At the warm but insecure untidy crowd
How sweet to be an idiot
And dip my brain in joy
Children laughing at my back
With no fear of attack
As much retaliation as a toy
How sweet to be an idiot
How sweet
I tiptoe down the street
Smile at everyone I meet
But suddenly a scream
Smashes through my dream
Fi fa fo fum
I smell blood of an asylum
Hey you
You're such a pedant
You've got as much brain as a dead ant
As much imagination as a caravan site
But I still love you
Still love you
How sweet to be an idiot
How sweet
How sweet
How sweet

Jung und
elastisch

Es
macht
spass!

SCHLEPP 91


                         MOROCCO
                              Sun, Sea, and Watch
                         out behind you

Mr. Smoketoomuch: Good morning.
Secretary: Oh, good morning. Uhm, have you come to arrange a holiday or would you like a blow job?
Mr. Smoketoomuch: I'm sorry?
Secretary: Uh, oh, you've come to arrange a holiday?
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Uuh...yes.
Secretary: Oh, sorry, sorry. Now, where were you thinking of going?
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Uh, to India.
Secretary: Ah, one of our adventure holidays.
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Yes, that's right.
Secretary: Well, you'd better see Mr. Bounder about that. Uh, Mr. Bounder, this gentleman is interested in the "India 
Overland" - and nothing else.
Mr. Bounder: Ah. Hello, I'm Bounder of Adventure.
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Oh, hello. My name is Smoketoomuch.
Mr. Bounder: What?
Mr. Smoketoomuch: My name is Smoketoomuch. Mr. Smoketoomuch.
Mr. Bounder: Well, you'd better cut down a little then. [Laughter]
Mr. Smoketoomuch: I'm sorry?
Mr. Bounder: You'd better cut down a little then. [Snigger]
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Oh, I see! Smoke too much so I'd better cut down a little then!
Mr. Bounder: Yes. [Laughter] Ooh, it's going to get people making jokes about your name all the time, eh?
Mr. Smoketoomuch: No, actually, it never struck me before. Smoketoomuch... [Laughter]
Mr. Bounder: Anyway, ehm, you're interested in one of our holidays, are you?
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Yes, that's right. I saw your advert in the blassified ads.
Mr. Bounder: The what?
Mr. Smoketoomuch: In The Times Blassified Ads.
Mr. Bounder: Ah, The Times Classified Ads.
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Yes, that's right. I'm afraid I have a speech impediment. I can't pronounce the letter B.
Mr. Bounder: Uh, C.
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Yes, that's right, B. It's all due to a trauma I suffered when I was a schoolboy. I was attacked by a 
Siamese bat.
Mr. Bounder: Uh, ah, a Siamese cat.
Mr. Smoketoomuch: No, a Siamese bat. They're more dangerous.
Mr. Bounder: Listen...can you say the letter K?
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Oh, yes. Khaki, kettle, Kipling, Khomeini, Kellog's Born Flakes.
Mr. Bounder: Well, why don't you say the letter K instead of the letter C?
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Well, you mean, pronounce "blassified" with a K?
Mr. Bounder: Yes, absolutely!
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Classified!
Mr. Bounder: Good!
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Oh, it's very good! I never thought of that before. What a silly bunt.
Mr. Bounder: Now then, uhm, about the holiday...
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Yes, well, I've been unpackaged store many times before, so your advert really bought my eye.
Mr. Bounder: Good, good, jolly good, well, let me offer you this...
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Why-why, what's the point of going abroad, if your just going to be treated like a sheep?
Mr. Bounder: Mmm.
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Cartered around in buses surrounded by sweaty mindless oaves from Vetchy and Boventry.
Mr. Bounder: Absolutely.
Mr. Smoketoomuch: They've blothed backs and their bardigans and their chances to radios, complaining about the tea or they 
don't make it properly, do they? And stopping at endless Majorcan bodegas selling fish and chips and Rodney's Red Barrel 
and calamares and toothache. And sitting in their cotton sunfrost, squirting Timothy White Suncream all over their puffy, 
raw, swollen, parollen flesh, 'cos they overdid it on the first day.
Mr. Bounder: Yes, I know just what you mean! Now, what we offer is...
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Being herded into countless Hotel Miramars and Bellevues, Bontinentals with their international luxury 
modern roomettes...
Mr. Bounder: Oh, yes.
Mr. Smoketoomuch: ...and swimming pools full of draft Red Barrel and fat German businessmen pretending to be acrobats 
and forming pyramids and frightening the children and...
Mr. Bounder: Oh, yes.
Mr. Smoketoomuch: ...barging into the cues. And if you're not at your table...
Mr. Bounder: Oh, yes.
Mr. Smoketoomuch: ...spot on seven you miss your bowl of Campbell's Cream and Mushroom Soup, the first item in the 
menu of International Cuisine.
Mr. Bounder: Absolutely. Now what we have here is...
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Every Thursday night there's a bloody cabaret in the bar featuring some tiny ---- dego with nine-inch 
hips and some fat bloated tart with her hair really creamed down and big arse presenting her to foreigners.
Mr. Bounder: Will you be quiet, please?
Mr. Smoketoomuch: ---- from Birmingham with bloody right...
Mr. Bounder: Will you be quiet?
Mr. Smoketoomuch: ...legs and diarrhea trying to pick up hairy, bandy legs ,whop degos called Manuel.
Mr. Bounder: Be-be quiet!
Mr. Smoketoomuch: And once a week there's an excursion to local Roman remains, where you can buy Cherry Aid and 
melted ice cream...
Mr. Bounder: Be quiet!
Mr. Smoketoomuch: ...and bleedin' Rodney's Red Barrel.
Mr. Bounder: Shut up!
Mr. Smoketoomuch: And one night they take you to a typical restaurant with local...
Mr. Bounder: Shut up!
Mr. Smoketoomuch: ...atmosphere and color and you sit next to a...
Mr. Bounder: Shut up!
Mr. Smoketoomuch: ...party from Relu who keep singing "I love the Costa Brava!"
Mr. Bounder: Shut up!
Mr. Smoketoomuch: "I love the Costa Brava!" And you get cornered by some drunken green grocer from Luton with an 
Instamatic camera and last Tuesday's daily express...
Mr. Bounder: Please be quiet!
Mr. Smoketoomuch: ...and he's on and on and on about how it is running the country and how many languages Margaret 
Powell can speak and she throws up all over the cuba libre. And spending four days on the tarmac at Luton Airport on a five-
day package store with nothing to eat but dry----sandwhiches.
Mr. Bounder: Shut up! Please shut up!
Mr. Smoketoomuch: And you can't even get a glass of Rodney's Red Barrel because you're still in England with the bloody 
bar closes every time you're thirsty. And the kids are crying and vomiting and breaking the plastic ashtrays. They keep telling 
you won't be another hour, but you know damn well your plane is still in Iceland, because it had to turn back, trying to take a 
party of Swedes to... 
Mr. Bounder: Shut up!
Mr. Smoketoomuch: ...to take a party of Swedes to Yugoslavia. Of course it loads you up there at 3 a.m. in the morning. And 
then you sit on the tarmac for four hours because of unforeseen difficulties, i.e. the permanent strike of airtraffic control over 
Paris. When you finally get to Malaga airport, everybody's cueing for the bloody toilet, and cueing for the bloody half-
customs officers, and cueing for the bloody bus that isn't there, waiting to take you to the hotel that hasn't yet been built. 
When you finally get to the half-built----ruin called the Hotel Limassol, while paying half the holiday money to a license 
Spaniard in a taxi, there's no water in the pool, there's no water in the bath, there's no water in the tap, there's only a bleeding 
lizard in the bid‚, and half the rooms are doublebooked, and you can't sleep anyhow, 'cause the permanent are in the jungles in 
the hotel next door. Meanwhile, the Spanish National Tourist Board promises that the raging cholera epidemic is merely a 
mild outbreak of the Spanish Conleigh, while the like of the previous outbreak in 1616 even the bloody rats are dying from it!
Graham Chapman: As early as the late 14th century, or indeed as late as the early 14th century, the earliest forms of japes 
were divisible in...
Mr. Smoketoomuch: Meanwhile, the bloody guardia are arresting 16-yearolds for kissing in the streets----everybody's buying 
awful little horrid donkeys with their names on, I can't tell you the----and when you finally get to Manchester, there's only 
another bloody bus to carry you another 60 miles...


Graham Chapman: As early as the late 14th century or indeed as late as the early 14th century, the earliest forms of jape were 
divisible into the two categories in which I now intend to divide them. The earliest manifestation of the of the basic simple 
precipitation jest incurred, as will be seen from the demonstration, a disproportional amount of internal resibility on the part 
of the operator.
Terry Jones falling after tripping on Michael Palin's leg: [Bladonk]
Graham Chapman: The secondary precipitation occurs when both protagonists and dupe are located indoors. It is true, 
howeve, that this has involved the development of a special piece of machinery. But it is still no more than a simple variation 
of primary precipitation.
Terry Jones falling after down after failing to sit down on a chair held by Terry Gilliam: [Bladonk]
Graham Chapman: The opening-up of the African continent revealed a vast new source of wealth for humourous exploatation. 
We are to see demonstrated how this was adapted to the basic precipitation jape.
Michael Palin: [Cough]
Graham Chapman: We now come on to a considera... [Cough] [Cough] We now come on to a consideration of the more 
sophisticated transitive mode of japing, in which as we'll observe, the operator or inceptor remains totally unaware of the 
humorous implications of his action. First...first we are to see the simple sideswipe or "wop."
Michael Palin: Hey, Vance!
Terry Jones being knocked down by Terry Gilliam's wooden board: [Bladonk]
Graham Chapman: Next, the "sideswipe and return."
Michael Palin: Hey, Vance!
Terry Jones being knocked down by Terry Gilliam's wooden board: [Bladonk] [Bladonk]
Graham Chapman: And now, the "double sideswipe and return."
Graham Chapman: Hey, Vance!
Terry Jones and Michael Palin being knocked down by Terry Gilliam's wooden board: [Bladonk] [Bladonk] 
[Bladonk][Bladonk] 
Graham Chapman: Popular as this jest has always been, however, it cannot compare with the ribbled connotations associated 
with the dispatch of an edible missile. First...first the simple straightforward "offensive deposit."
Michael Palin throwing a pie in Terry Jones's face: [Blafs]
Graham Chapman: Second...second the simple "sideways offensive deposit."
Terry Gilliam throwing a pie at Terry Jones sideways: [Blafs]
Graham Chapman: Next, the simple "surprise deposit."
Michael Palin throwing a pie in Terry Jones's face: [Blafs]
Graham Chapman: And now, the "foul pie."
Terry Gilliam pressing a pie into Terry Jones's abdominal areas: [Blafs]
Graham Chapman: Uh, could we have new pies, please? Finally, finally we move on to the interesting but little known variant 
normally designated the "three-course complex."
Terry Gilliam throwing a pie into Michael Palin's face: [Blafs]
Michael Palin throwing a pie into Terry Jones's face: [Blafs]
Michael Palin and Terry Gilliam simultaneously pressing pies into Terry Jones's face: [Face]
Graham Chapman: But...but finally we must not forget the enjoyment, the satisfaction, and the edification to be derived from 
the simple straightforward "sideways completely unexpected deposit."
Graham Chapman pressing a pie into John Cleese's face: [Blafs]

CHILDREN'S
HOUR

Storyteller: Once upon a time there was a little house in a dark forest. In this house lived a humble woodcutter and his wife 
and their pretty daughter, Little Red Riding Hood.And in the middle of this deep, dark forest, there lived a vicious wolf! One 
day Little Red Riding Hood sent off to take some things to her old grandmother who lived deep in the forest. The vicious wolf 
saw Little Red Riding Hood and thought: "She looks very good to eat!" "Where are you going my, pretty one?" "Oh, kind sir, 
to my grandmother's." "Ha, ha, ha, ha!" snirked the wicked wolf and dashed off through the forest to grandmother's house. 
"Knock, knock, knock" went the wicked wolf. The door opened wide, but it wasn't grandmother who opened it. It was Buzz 
Aldrin, America's #2 spaceman! But this was not Granny's little house at all, but the headquarter of NASA, the American 
space research agency. The wicked wolf was shot by security guards. So all was quiet in the forest again. The humble 
woodcutter and his wife sold the their story to Der Speigel for 40 000 DM. NASA agreed to limit the number of nuclear tests 
in Granny's little house to two on Thursdays and one on Saturdays after tea.


Wife: Liberal rubbish! What do you want with your jugged fish, Klaus?
Husband: Pardon, my wide-thighed plum?
Wife: What do you want with your jugged fish, you clothied git?
Husband: Hallibut!
Wife: The jugged fish is hallibut!
Husband: All right. What fish do you have that is not jugged?
Wife: Uuh, rabbit.
Husband: What, rabbit fish?
Wife: Well, it's all covered in fur.
Husband: Well, is it dead?
Wife: Well, it was coughing up blood last night.
Husband: All right, I'll have the dead, unjugged rabbit fish.
Female Voice: One dead, unjugged rabbit fish later.

ONE DEAD UNJUGGED
RABBIT FISH LATER

Husband: Apalling!
Wife: Oh, you're always complaining.
Husband: What's for afterwards?
Wife: Well, there's rat pie, rat pudding, rat sorbet or, uh, strawberry tart.
Husband: Strawberry tart?
Wife: Well, uh, it's got some rat in it.
Husband: How much?
Wife: Six. Rather a lot really.
Husband: I'll have a slice without so much rat in it.
Female Voice: One slice of strawberry tart without so much rat in it later.

ONE SLICE OF STRAWBERRY TART
WITHOUT SO MUCH RAT IN IT LATER

Husband: Apalling!
Wife: "Moan, moan, moan!"
Son: Hello, mom! Hello, dad!
Husband: Hello, son!
Son: There's a dead bishop on the landing!
Wife: Where...where's he from?
Son: What do you mean?
Wife: What's his diocese?
Son: Well, he looked a bit Canterburyish to me.
Husband: I'll go and have a look.
Wife: I ---- who's bringing them here.
Son: Well, it's not me.
Wife: I put three out by the trashcans last week and the garbagemen won't touch them.
Husband: It's the bishop of Leicester!
Wife: How do you know?
Husband: Tatooed on the back of his neck! I think I'd better call the police!
Wife: Should you call the church?
Son: Call the church police!
Husband: That's a good idea! The church police!
Michael Palin: Hello! What's all this then? Amen!
Wife: Are you the church police?
Church Police: Oh, yes!
Wife: There's another dead bishop on the landing, sergeant!
Michael Palin: Detective ----, madam! What is he? R.C. or ----?
Wife: How should I know?
Michael Palin: Tatooed on the back of their neck! Here, is that rat tart?
Wife: Oh, uh, yes.
Michael Palin: Disgusting! Right, men! The hunt is on! Let us kneel in prayer! Oh, Lord!
Church Police: Oh, Lord, we deseach thee. Let us ---- the Bishop of Leicester.
The Almighty Powers of God: [Thunder]
Angels' Choir: [Chant]
God: The one in the braces, he done it.
Angels' Choir: [Chant]
Husband: It's a fair cop, but society is to blame.
Michael Palin: Right, we'll arrest them instead!
John Cleese: Come on, you! Are you in society? Are you in society?
Wife: Ho, ho, ho, ho...
Michael Palin: Right, we'd like to conclude this arrest with a hymn.

Michael Palin :
The whole thing's bright and beautiful, all creatures great and small. 
The whole thing's bright and wonderful...

Lumberjack: I never wanted to be in such a shambledy sketch. I always wanted to be...a lumberjack! Leaping from tree to 
tree...as they float down the mighty rivers of British Columbia! The larch...the redwood...the mighty sequioa...with my best 
girl by my side! The giant deadwood, the spruce...the little Californian root tree! We'd sing, sing, sing!

Lumberjack :
I'm a lumberjack and I'm OK, I sleep all night and I work all day.

Choir & Girl :
He's a lumberjack and he's OK, he sleeps all night and he works all day.

Lumberjack :
I cut down trees, I eat my lunch, I go to the lavatory.
On Wednesdays I go shopping, and have buttered scones for tea.

Choir :
He cuts down trees, he eats his lunch, he goes to the lavatory.
On Wednesdays he goes shopping, and has buttered scones for tea.

Lumberjack :
I'm a lumberjack and I'm OK, I sleep all night and I work all day.
Choir :
He's a lumberjack and he's OK, he sleeps all night and he works all day.

Lumberjack :
I cut down trees, I skip and jump, I like to press wild flowers.
I put on women's clothing, and hang around in bars.

Choir :
He cuts down trees, he skips and jumps, he likes to press wild flowers.
He puts on women's clothing, and hangs around in bars?

Lumberjack:
I'm a lumberjack and I'm OK, I sleep all night and I work all day .
Choir & Girl :
He's a lumberjack and he's OK, he sleeps all night and he works all day.

Lumberjack :
I cut down trees, I wear high heels, suspenders and a bra.
I wish I'd been a girlie, just like my dear papa.

Choir :
He cuts down trees, he wears high heels, suspenders and a bra?

John Cleese: What kind of god damn fairy cunny fairy faggot...

All except Girl :
I'm a lumberjack and I'm OK, I sleep all night and I work all day.
I'm a lumberjack and I'm OK!

MONTY
PYTHONS
FLYING CIRCUS

[Liberty Bell - John Philip Sousa]


Concert Film
Produced and
Directed by
TERRY HUGHES

Filmed Sequences
Directed by
IAN MACNAUGHTON

Post Production
Director and Editor
JULIAN DOYLE

Executive Producer
DENIS O'BRIENCONCERT

Concert Film Co-Producer
JAMES RICH, JR.

HOLLYWOOD BOWL


Production Coordinator
ANNE HENSHAW

Stage Manager
MOLLIE KIRKLAND

Production Design
JOHN MACGRAW

and
JOHN MILES

Sound
STAN MILLER

Wardrobe
DAY MURCH
HAZEL PETHIG

Props
CHARLES KNOBE
BILL PEIRCE

Make up
VE NEILL
MAGGIE WESTON

Promotion
CLOG HOLDING and
LARRY WALLON

Press
PATTI WRIGHT

Python's U.S. Coordinator
NANCY LEWIS

Music Production
ANDRE JACQUEMIN

Title Music
JOHN DUPREZ
 
and
RAY COOPER

CONCERT FILM

Edited By
JIMMY B. FRAZIER

Lighting Design By
WILLIAM KLAGES

Video Control
JOHN B. FIELD
JOHN PALACIO

Audio Recordist
ED GREEN

Script Supervisor
SANDRA PEARSON

Unit Manager
DAVID R. HORNE

Production Manager
STEVE TERRY

The End

Technical Directors
JOHN B. FIELD
JIMMY B. FRAZIER
KEN HOLLAND
GARY MATZ

Camera Operators
DAVE HILMER
MIKE KEELER
JOHN LEE
DAVE LEVISOHN
WAYNE ORR

Technical Operations
Supervisor
STEVE DEAVER

Videotape Operator
BILL CONROY

Maintenance
BILL FEIGHTNER
BERT WEYL

Assistant Audio
JEFF FECTEAU
CHRIS SEIDENGLANZ
LARRY STEPHENS

RTS Phonelines
KENNETH NUNN

Camera Assistance
DAN ANDRESEN
JOHN MAYON

Audio Utility
RICH BROWN
MIKE WILSON

Audio Re-Recording
JERRY CLEMANS

Opticals Designed By
C.D. TAYLOR

Rear Projection
BACKGROUND ENGINEEERS

Assistant
Videotape Editors
MARK BERNEY
KEN LASKI

Production Associate
JOANNE FISH

The End

Recorded in Imagevision By
COMPACT VIDEO
SERVICES, INC.

Piss Off

Concert Film Assembly
ARDEN RYNEN

Post Production Supervisor
SANDRA PEARSON

With Thanks To
MARTY FELDMAN
ANGUS JAMES
DAVID LIPSCOMB
TIM BROOKE-TAYLOR
ARISTA RECORD, INC.
CHARISMA RECORDS LTD.

Piss Off

Staged
and
Presented by
MONTY PYTHON

COPYRIGHT ¸ 1982
THE MONTY PYTHON BEGGING BOWL PARTNERSHIP
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

No. 26740
THIS PICTURE MADE UNDER


THE JURISDICTION OF

MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA



THE CHARACTERS AND INCIDENTS PORTRAYED AND THE NAMES USED HEREIN
ARE FICTITIOUS, AND ANY SIMILARITY TO THE NAME, CHARACTER OR HISTORY
OF ANY PERSON IS ENTIRELY COINCIDENTAL AND UNINTENTIONAL

THIS MOTION PICTURE PHOTOPLAY IS PROTECTED PURSUANT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE
LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND OTHER COUNTRIES. ANY UNAUTHORIZED
DUPLICATION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION OF THIS PHOTOPLAY MAY RESULT
IN CIVIL LIABILITY AND CRIMINAL PROSECUTION
--------------
**** The Bookshop Sketch                               ****
**** from "Monty Python Live at the Hollywood Bowl"                ****
 
Customer: (entering the bookshop) Good morning.
Proprietor (John Cleese): Good morning, sir. Can I help you?
C: Er, yes. Do you have a copy of "Thirty Days in the Samarkind Desert with
 the Duchess of Kent" by A. E. J. Eliott, O.B.E.?
P: Ah, well, I don't know the book, sir....
C: Er, never mind, never mind.     How about "A Hundred and One Ways to
 Start a Fight"?
P: ...By?
C: An Irish gentleman whose name eludes me for the moment.
P: Ah, no, well we haven't got it in stock, sir....
C: Oh, well, not to worry, not to worry. Can you help me with "David
 Coperfield"?
P: Ah, yes, Dickens.
C: No....
P: (pause) I beg your pardon?
C: No, Edmund Wells.
P: I... *think* you'll find Charles Dickens wrote "David Copperfield", sir....
C: No, no, Dickens wrote "David Copperfield" with *two* Ps. This is
 "David Coperfield" with *one* P by Edmund Wells.
P: "David Coperfield" with one P?
C: Yes, I should have said.
P: Yes, well in that case we don't have it.
C: (peering over counter) Funny, you've got a lot of books here....
P: (slightly perturbed) Yes, we do, but we don't have "David Coperfield"
 with one P by Edmund Wells.
C: Pity, it's more thorough than the Dickens.
P: More THOROUGH?!?
C: Yes...I wonder if it might be worth a look through all your "David Copper-
 field"s...
P: No, sir, all our "David Copperfield"s have two P's.
C: Are you quite sure?
P: Quite.
C: Not worth just looking?
P: Definitely not.
C: Oh...how 'bout "Grate Expectations"?
P: Yes, well we have that....
C: That's "G-R-A-T-E Expectations," also by Edmund Wells.
P: (pause) Yes, well in that case we don't have it. We don't have anything
 by Edmund Wells, actually: he's not very popular.
C: Not "Knickerless Knickleby"? That's K-N-I-C-K-E-R-L-E-S-S.
P: (taciturn) No.
C: "Khristmas Karol" with a K?
P: (really quite perturbed) No....
C: Er, how about "A Sale of Two Titties"?
P: DEFINITELY NOT.
C: (moving towards door) Sorry to trouble you....
P: Not at all....
C: Good morning.
P: Good morning.
C: (turning around) Oh!
P: (deep breath) Yesss?
C: I wonder if you might have a copy of "Rarnaby Budge"?
P: No, as I say, we're right out of Edmund Wells!
C: No, not Edmund Wells - Charles Dikkens.
P: (pause - eagerly) Charles Dickens??
C: Yes.
P: (excitedly) You mean "Barnaby Rudge"!
C: No, "Rarnaby Budge" by Charles Dikkens. That's Dikkens with two Ks, the
 well-known Dutch author.
P: (slight pause) No, well we don't have "Rarnaby Budge" by Charles Dikkens
 with two Ks, the well-known Dutch author, and perhaps to save time I
 should add that we don't have "Karnaby Fudge" by Darles Chickens, or
 "Farmer of Sludge" by Marles Pickens, or even "Stickwick Stapers" by Farles
 Wickens with four M's and a silent Q!!!!! Why don't you try W. H. Smith's?
C: Ah did, They sent me here.
P: DID they.
C: Oh, I wonder...
P: Oh, do go on, please.
C: Yes...I wonder if you might have "The Amazing Adventures of Captain Gladys
 Stoutpamphlet and her Intrepid Spaniel Stig Amongst the Giant Pygmies of
 Beckles"...volume eight.
P: (after a pause for recovery) No, we don't have that...funny, we've got a lot
 of books here...well, I musn't keep you standing here...thank you,--
C: Oh, well do, do you have--           ---\
P: No, we haven't. No, we haven't.      |
C: B-b-b-but--                     |
P: Sorry, no, it's one o'clock now, we're |
 closing for lunch--                |
C: Ah, I--I saw it--                |-------loud arguments
P: I'm sorry--                     |
C: I saw it over there! I saw it...      |
P: What? What? WHAT?!?           ---/
C: I saw it over there: "Olsen's Standard Book of British Birds".
P: (pause; trying to stay calm) "Olsen's Standard Book of British Birds"?
C: Yes...
P: O-L-S-E-N?
C: Yes....
P: B-I-R-D-S??
C: Yes.....
P: (beat) Yes, well, we do have that, as a matter of fact....
C: The expurgated version....
P: (pause; politely) I'm sorry, I didn't quite catch that...?
C: The expurgated version.
P: (exploding) The EXPURGATED version of "Olsen's Standard Book of British
 Birds"?!?!?!?!?
C: (desperately) The one without the gannet!
P: The one without the gannet-!!! They've ALL got the gannet!! It's a
 Standard British Bird, the gannet, it's in all the books!!!
C: (insistent) Well, I don't like them...they wet their nests.
P: (furious) All right! I'll remove it!! (rrrip!) Any other birds you don't
 like?!
C: I don't like the robin...
P: (screaming) The robin! Right! The robin! (rrrip!) There you are, any
 others you don't like, any others?
C: The nuthatch?
P: Right! (flipping through the book)     The nuthatch, the nuthatch, the
 nuthatch, 'ere we are! (rrriiip!) There you are! NO gannets, NO robins,
 NO nuthatches, THERE's your book!
C: (indignant) I can't buy that! It's torn!
P: (incoherent noise)
C: Ah, I wonder if you have--
P: God, ask me anything!! We got lots of books here, you know, it's a
 bookshop!!
C: Er, how 'bout "Biggles Combs his Hair"?
P: No, no, we don't have that one, funny!
C: "The Gospel According to Charley Drake"?
P: No, no, no, try me again!
C: Ah...oh, I know! "Ethel the Aardvark goes Quantity Surveying".
P: No, no, no, no, no,...What?     WHAT??????
C: "Ethel the Aardvark goes Quantity Surveying".
P: "Ethel the Aa--" YES!!!YES!!! WE'VE GOT IT!! (throwing books wildly about)
 I-I've seen it somewhere!!!     I know it!!! Hee hee hee hee hee!!! Ha ha hoo
 ho---WAIT!!     WAIT!!     Is it?? Is it??? (triumphant) YES!!!!!! Here we are,
 "Ethel the Aardvark goes Quantity Surveying"!!!!! There's your book!!
 (throwing it down) Now, BUY IT!!!
C: (quickly) I don't have enough money.
P: (desperate) I'll take a deposit!
C: I don't have ANY money!
P: I'll take a check!!
C: I don't have a checkbook!
P: I've got a blank one!!
C: I don't have a bank account!!
P: RIGHT!!!! I'll buy it FOR you! (ring) There we are, there's your change,
 there's some money for a taxi on the way home, there's your book, now, now..
C: Wait, wait, wait!
P: What? What?!? WHAT?!? WHAT???!!
C: I can't read!!!
P: (staggeringly long pause; very quietly) You can't...read. (pause) RIGHT!!!
 Sit down!! Sit down!! Sit!! Sit!! Are you sitting comfortably???
 Right!!! (opens book) "Ethel the Aardvark was hopping down the river valley
 one lovely morning, trottety-trottety-trottety, when she might a nice little
 quantity surveyor..." (fade out)
 
 
**** end of file BOOKSHOP PYTHON 8/30/87 ****



<!--
google_ad_client = "pub-1850297377568722";
google_ad_slot = "3498319287";
google_ad_width = 728;
google_ad_height = 90;
//-->







<!--
google_ad_client = "pub-1850297377568722";

google_ad_slot = "1873190141"; /* 160x600, created 9/13/10 */
google_ad_width = 160;
google_ad_height = 600;

//-->










All movie scripts and screenplays on "Screenplays for You" site are intended for fair use only.






