Bounty hunter Jack Walsh (De Niro) is enlisted by bail bondsman Eddie Moscone (Pantoliano) to bring accountant Jonathan "The Duke" Mardukas (Grodin) back to L.A.
The accountant had embezzled $15 million from Chicago mob boss Jimmy Serrano (Farina) before skipping the $450,000 bail Moscone has posted for him.
Jack must bring Mardukas back within five days, or Eddie defaults.
Eddie says the job is easy, a "midnight run", but Jack demands $100,000.
Jack is then approached by FBI Agent Alonzo Mosely (Kotto), who wants Mardukas to be a witness against Serrano and orders Jack to keep away from Mardukas, but Jack takes no notice and instead steals Mosely's ID, which he uses to pass himself off as an FBI agent along his journey.
At Kennedy airport in New York, Serrano’s henchmen Tony (Foronjy) and Joey (Miranda) offer Jack $1 million to turn Mardukas over to them, but he turns them down.

Jack takes custody of Mardukas in New York and calls Eddie from the airport, not knowing that Eddie's line is tapped by the FBI and Jerry (Kehoe), Eddie's assistant, is secretly tipping Serrano's men off for money.
However, Mardukas has a panic attack on the plane, forcing him and Jack to travel via train.
When Jack and Mardukas fail to show up, Eddie brings in rival bounty hunter Marvin Dorfler (Ashton) to find them.
Marvin uses Jack's credit card number to find out where they are and then has the card cancelled.
Jack is able to get the drop on Marvin and leaves the train, but without funds, he is forced to rely on other means to get across the country, including stealing cars, borrowing his ex-wife’s (Phillips) car in Chicago, and hitchhiking.
Meanwhile, the skirmish on the train reaches Mosely's ears and he leads a task force to find Jack and Mardukas.

Mardukas tries to get to know Jack, who eventually reveals that ten years before, he was an undercover officer in Chicago trying to get close to a drug dealer who had almost the entire force on his payroll.
Eventually, just as Walsh was going to make the arrest, the drug dealer had some heroin planted in his house by corrupt cops.
In order to avoid prison and working for the dealer, Walsh left Chicago and became a bounty hunter, while his wife divorced him and married the corrupt lieutenant who fired him.
Since then, however, Jack has lived with a sense of hope that he will one day be reunited with his ex-wife.
Later on, Mardukas learns that the drug dealer was Serrano himself.

In Arizona, Marvin catches up with them and takes Mardukas away from Jack, who is found by Mosely.
While arguing with Moscone over the phone, Jack realises that Marvin intends to turn Mardukas over to Serrano for $2 million, though Marvin is betrayed and knocked out by Serrano's men after accidentally revealing where he was keeping Mardukas.
Jack calls Serrano's men and bluffs that he has computer disks created by Mardukas with enough information to put Serrano away, but promises to hand the disks over if Serrano returns Mardukas to him unharmed.
At McCarran Airport, Jack meets up with Serrano while wearing a wire and being watched by the FBI.
Marvin, at the airport to fly home, spots Mardukas and interrupts the exchange.
Marvin pushes Jack and unknowingly disables the wire.
At the last minute, Jack yells that Serrano has the disks; the FBI closes in, arresting Serrano and his henchmen.
Mosely turns Mardukas over to Jack with enough time to return him to L.A. by the deadline.

In L.A., Jack calls Eddie to tell him that he has Mardukas, but that he is letting him go.
Before parting, Mardukas gives Jack $300,000 in a money belt he had been hiding, while Jack gives Mardukas his old watch that his wife gave him before their marriage, symbolising that he has finally let go of her.
Jack flags down a taxi and asks the driver if he has change for a $1,000 bill, but the taxi drives away, so he starts walking home.