In the 70's and 80's, the crime in the United States has increased up to 400%, so, in 1988, the island of Manhattan was evacuated, isolated from the rest of New York City and turned into a giant maximum-security prison in which all inmates serve a life sentence (prisoners escorted inside cannot be released).
A 50-foot (15 m) containment wall surrounds the island and many of Manhattan's bridges and tunnels have either been destroyed or covered with mines to prevent anyone escaping from the prison.
The surrounding waters are patrolled and no civilians, even prison guards, are allowed to set foot on the island.

The same year, the Third World War has escalated from the eruption of the Cold War, however, it has been reduced in the 90's.
In 1997, while traveling to a three-way peace summit between the United States, the Soviet Union, and the People's Republic of China, Air Force One is hijacked by terrorists.
The plane crashes into Manhattan, but the President (Donald Pleasence) makes it to an escape pod and survives.
The inmates take him hostage and order all recovery forces to leave Manhattan immediately and to release them, or the President will be executed.

New York Police Commissioner Bob Hauk (Lee Van Cleef) offers a deal to a U.S special forces soldier turned criminal "Snake" Plissken (Kurt Russell): If Snake rescues the President and retrieves a secret cassette tape containing a vital speech within 24 hours, Hauk will give him a full pardon.
When Plissken reluctantly agrees to attempt the rescue, Hauk has him injected with a "booster" he says is to fend off disease, but the tech performing the injection forces Hauk to reveal the injection implanted microscopic explosives that will rupture his carotid arteries within 24 hours.
The explosives can only be defused in the last 15 minutes before they detonate, ensuring that Snake does not abandon his mission.
If he returns with the President and the tape in time for the summit, Hauk will save him from his death by neutralizing the explosives with X-rays.

Snake is escorted by guards to the wall, landing atop the World Trade Center in a stealth glider and locating the plane wreckage and escape pod.
He tracks the President's life-monitor bracelet signal to a theater, only to find it on the wrist of an old man.
He meets an inmate nicknamed "Cabbie" (Ernest Borgnine), who drives a cab with bars over the windows, and who takes Snake to see Harold "Brain" Hellman (Harry Dean Stanton), an powerful Manhattan mobster who has made the New York Public Library his personal fortress, with inmates to protect it and an oil rig set up in the library to provide oil and fuel (likely for protected status in the prison).

Brain, who knows Snake, tells him that the self-proclaimed "Duke of New York" (Isaac Hayes), has the President and plans to lead a mass escape across the mined and heavily guarded 69th Street Bridge, using the President as a human shield and a map Brain has created to avoid the mines.
Snake forces Brain and his girlfriend Maggie (Adrienne Barbeau) to lead him to the Duke's compound at Grand Central Station.
Snake finds the President in a railroad car, but he is captured by the Duke's men.

While Snake is forced to fight with a heavy prisoner named Slag (Ox Baker), Brain and Maggie trick the Duke's right-hand man Romero (Frank Doubleday) into letting them see the President.
Once inside, they kill Romero and the guards, free the President, and flee.
When the Duke learns this, he is furious and rounds up his gang to chase them down, desperate to leave Manhattan.
In the confusion, Snake (who killed Slag right before the news about the Brain is revealed) slips away and manages to catch up with Brain, Maggie, and the President on the roof of the World Trade Center, intending to use Snake's glider to escape New York.
After a group of crazies cuts the ropes on Snake's glider and push it off the top of the roof, the group heads back down and encounters Cabbie, who offers to take them across the bridge in his cab.
When Cabbie reveals that he has the secret tape (having traded it to Romero earlier for his cabbie's hat), the President demands it, but Snake takes it.

With the Duke chasing in another car, Snake and the others drive over the mine-strewn bridge.
The cab is blown in half by a miscalculation of the land mine placement and Cabbie is killed.
As they flee on foot, Brain is killed when he steps on another mine and Maggie refuses to leave him, taking Snake's gun and firing several shots at the Duke's approaching car before he runs her over.
Snake and the President reach the wall and the guards raise the President on a rope.
The Duke kills the guards and attacks the President, from atop the wall, machine-pistols the Duke dead with a spray of automatic fire, mocking him as he does so.
Snake is lifted to safety, and the explosives are deactivated with just seconds to spare.

As the President prepares for a televised speech, he thanks Snake for saving him.
Snake asks how he feels about the people who died saving his life, but the President only offers halfhearted regret.
Hauk offers Snake a job, but Snake just walks away.
The President's speech commences, and he offers the content of the cassette to the summit; but to the President's surprise and public humiliation, the tape is Cabbie's cassette of the swing song Bandstand Boogie.
As Snake walks away, he removes the real cassette from his pocket and tears it apart.