Nick and Rudy are cellmates in prison two days away from release.
Nick has been corresponding with a young woman named Ashley, who is waiting for him on the outside.
After Nick is killed during a prison fight, Rudy takes his place and lets the beautiful Ashley think he is the one who has been writing her.
Gabriel, the leader of a gang who assaults Rudy and Ashley in their cabin, claims to be Ashley's brother and tells "Nick" that the gang, with Nick's help, will rob the casino he used to work at.
Rudy reveals he is not Nick, but Ashley continues to confirm he is and that she wrote to him knowing Gabriel was going to kidnap and force Rudy to assist in the robbery.
Rudy, while furious with Ashley, is reluctantly forced to go along with his ruse.

Using the information from the real Nick’s prison cell stories, Rudy is able to devise a robbery plan and informs Gabriel that the biggest loot is hidden inside a safe in the manager’s office.
On the night of the robbery, Rudy breaks out of his holding in order to find a way to arm himself as he knows Gabriel will kill him after the robbery.
He stumbles upon Gabriel and Ashley and learns that they are lovers and partners in crime.

The group robs the casino, each dressed as Santa Claus.
Rudy, forced to take part in the robbery, hides the fact that he knows Ashley’s secret.
Shots are fired and security guards and Santas are shot.
Ashley drives into the Casino and lets Nick/Rudy know she is in on the heist.
All meeting in the manager's office, Gabriel introduces Rudy to the casino manager as Nick but the manager recognizes that he isn’t Nick and Rudy confesses.
Gabriel, furious at Rudy’s deception, spares him for a moment when he demands to know where the "PowWow” safe is.
When the manager opens the safe, he grabs guns from inside and kills one of the robbers as the rest flee.
Rudy kills another one of the robbers and is then grabbed by Gabriel and Ashley who tie him up in their 18 wheeler truck.

They plan to drive him off the edge of a cliff in a burning vehicle with a little of the money so that officials will guess all had been burned.
After accidentally revealing too much information during an argument with Rudy, Ashley shoots and kills the now suspicious Gabriel.
Shortly after, Nick appears, having staged his death at the prison.
It is revealed that Ashley's real name is Millie Bobeck and Rudy learns that the two had collaborated to rob the casino using Rudy and other thieves.
Ashley had known the entire time who Rudy truly was.
Nick also informs Rudy that the prison stories were part of a set-up.

After they tie Rudy to the steering wheel to drive off the cliff, he produces a knife he had gotten earlier, cuts his bindings, hot wires the car, sets it to reverse and crushes Nick.
With Ashley firing at him, he rams the car into her and dives out as the car and Ashley go over the cliff.
Nick tries to convince Rudy that they can share the money but Rudy locks him in the truck and also sends it over the cliff.
Rudy picks up the stolen cash and begins distributing it in mailboxes he comes across on the way home.