Famed novelist Paul Sheldon is the author of a successful series of novels featuring a character named Misery Chastain.
Wanting to focus on more serious novels, he writes a manuscript for a new unrelated novel.
He departs from Silver Creek, Colorado to head to his home in New York City, but is caught in a blizzard and his car goes off the road, and he is rendered unconscious.
Paul is rescued by a nurse named Annie Wilkes who brings him to her remote home.
When Paul regains consciousness, he finds himself bedridden, with both his legs broken as well as a dislocated shoulder.
Annie claims she is his "number one fan" and talks a lot about him and his novels.
As a reward for saving him, Paul gives Annie his new manuscript which she had saved from the wreckage.
Annie enjoys his new novel, but later admits she disliked the use of excessive profanity.
While feeding him, she is angered and spills soup on him but regains control and apologizes.
She buys a copy of Paul's latest published book, Misery's Child, giving glowing praise to Paul as she progresses through the book.
However, near the end of the book when Annie discovers that Misery had died, she flies into a rage, almost smashing a table on Paul's head.
She reveals that she lied about calling his agent and the authorities; nobody knows where he is.
Annie leaves and Paul tries to escape from his room, but she has locked the door.

The next morning, Annie makes Paul burn his latest manuscript.
When he is well enough to get out of bed, she insists he write a new novel entitled Misery's Return, in which he brings the character back to life.
Paul complies (retconning in the new book that Misery was not dead and was merely in a coma), believing Annie might kill him otherwise.
He also tells her he will use Annie's name in the book in appreciation of her nursing him back to health.
However, having found a way of escaping his room, he sneaks out when Annie is away and begins to stockpile his painkillers.
He tries to poison Annie during a candlelit dinner, but fails when she accidentally spills her drugged wine.
During another venture out of his room, Paul finds a scrapbook of newspaper clippings about Annie's past.
He discovers that she was suspected and tried for the deaths of several infants, but the trial crumbled due to lack of evidence.
Paul is also shocked and surprised that Annie quoted lines he had written in his Misery novels during her trial.
Later, Annie drugs Paul and straps him to the bed.
When he wakes, she tells him that she knows he's been out of his room and breaks his ankles.

Meanwhile, the local sheriff, Buster, is investigating Paul's disappearance, which is interspersed throughout the plot with him gathering intelligence and reading Misery novels.
When a shopkeeper informs the sheriff he has sold Annie considerable quantities of typing paper, Buster surmises Paul must be at the Wilkes farm.
Buster pays Annie a visit, who is nonchalant at first and permits the sheriff to inspect the residence.
However, when Buster finds that Paul has been drugged and hidden in the basement, Annie fatally shoots Buster and tells Paul that they must die together.
He agrees, but on the condition that he must finish the novel in order to "give Misery back to the world".
While she gets his chair, Paul conceals a can of lighter fluid in his pocket.

When the book is done, he reminds Annie it is his practice to have a single cigarette and a glass of champagne after finishing a novel.
When Annie gives these things to Paul, he tells her that this time, he will need a second glass, for her.
As Annie goes to get a second glass, Paul soaks the manuscript in the lighter fluid, and as Annie returns with the glass he sets it on fire, much as she made him do to his earlier post-Misery novel.
Paul and Annie fight, and Annie is killed.

Eighteen months later, Paul, now walking with a cane, meets his publishing agent Marcia in a restaurant at New York City.
The two discuss his first non-'Misery' novel, titled "The Higher Education of J. Philip Stone."
Marcia tells him about the positive early buzz which Paul does not care about, saying he wrote the novel for himself (that Annie inspired him in a way).
Marcia asks if he would consider a non-fiction book about his captivity, but Paul declines.
While at the restaurant, he sees Annie, only to be a figment of his imagination as it turns out to be a waitress.
The waitress says she is his "number one fan", to which Paul uncomfortably responds "That's very sweet of you."