CINEMA PARADISO by Giuseppe Tornatore




          
          CINEMA PARADISO

                 by

            Giuseppe Tornatore
               







        FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY



        Shooting Script                    


                    
     
     
     1  GIANCALDO. SALVATORE'S MOTHER'S HOUSE. EXT/INT. DAY
     
     The October sun slashes through the gray clouds, cuts across the
     shadow towards the sea, along the coast where the new suburbs of the
     city of Giancaldo have been built up.
     
     Bright light streams through the windows, glancing off the white
     walls in an almost blinding reflection. MARIA, a woman a little over
     sixty, is trying to find somebody on the phone.
     
                    MARIA  
          ...Salvatore, that's right, 
          Salvatore. Di Vita Salvatore
          ...But, miss, what do you mean you 
          don't know him?!...I...Yes...
               (She gives a nervous sigh. 
               She has dialed her way 
               through endless numbers 
               but still hasn't managed 
               to speak to Mr. Di
               Vita. She finally heaves a 
               sigh of relief.)
          ...That's right, good for you! 
          Oh!...yes...And I'm his
          mother. I'm calling from Sicily. Been 
          trying all day...Ah, he's not 
          there...But would you be so kind as 
          to give me...?...Yes...
               (She nods at another woman 
               around forty sitting 
               nearby: it is LIA, her 
               daughter, who jots down 
               the numbers her 
               mother dictates:)
          ...Six, five, six, two, two, oh, 
          six...Thanks ever so
          much...Goodbye. Goodbye.
     
     She hangs up, takes the number LIA has jotted down, determined to have still 
     another try. LIA speaks to her as if she were a baby, to be more convincing.
     
                    LIA  
          Look, Ma...It's useless calling him. 
          He'll be terribly busy, God knows 
          where he is. Besides he might not 
          even remember. Do as I say, forget 
          it...He hasn't been here for thirty 
          years. You know how he is. 
     
     MARIA pauses to think it over. The decision she has to make is important. Then, 
     stubbornly.
     
                    MARIA  
          He'll remember! He'll remember! 
               (She puts on her glasses 
               and starts dialing 
               the number.)
          ...I'm positive. I know him better 
          than you do. If he were to find 
          out we hadn't told him, he'd be 
          angry. I know. 
               (She takes off her 
               glasses.)
          ...Hello? Good morning. Could I 
          please speak to Mr. Salvatore Di 
          Vita. I'm his mother...
     
     2  ROME. STREETS. EXT/INT. NIGHT
     
     It's late, but there is still traffic on the streets heading downtown.
     Inside a high-powered car, a man  around fifty is driving. It is
     SALVATORE Dl VITA. Elegant, just growing gray, a handsome face
     creased by deep wrinkles. His weary expression hides the determined,
     sell-assured manner of the successful self-made man. He must be a
     heavy smoker judging by the way he draws the last puffs on his
     cigarette.
     
     He stops at a red light. He stubs out the cigarette and rolls down the
     window, as a little Fiat Uno pulls up alongside. A rock tune plays full
     blast on the radio. SALVATORE turns instinctively to have a look at the
     man at the wheel  a BOY with a brush cut standing straight in the latest
     fashion. He studies the Boy's expression with almost exaggerated
     attention, but devoid of curiosity, coldly. The GIRL sitting beside him,
     lots of curly hair, overripe red lips, returns SALVATORE'5 look,
     provocatively. The BOY notices, turns to SALVATORE in a surly voice:
     
                    BOY  
          Hey! What the fuck you looking at!?
     
     Green light. The Fiat Uno shoots off, leaving a trail of music in its wake.
     
     3  ROME. SALVATORE S APARTMENT. INT. NIGHT 
     
     The apartment is luxurious, tastefully furnished. There is no one waiting for 
     SALVATORE. Through the picture window on the terrace, the city can be seen 
     slumbering in the night. SALVATORE gets undressed on his way to the bedroom. He 
     moves quietly, as if to make no noise. He doesn't even turn on the light, 
     finishes getting undressed in the pale blue glow coming from the picture window. 
     A rustling sound, a movement on the bed, the voice of a woman waking up. 
     
                    CLARA  
          Salvatore...But what time is it? 
     
     She turns on the bedside light. It is CLARA, a young woman around thirty. 
     SALVATORE climbs in beside her under the covers, kisses her sweetly, then in a 
     whisper.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          It's late, Clara. Sorry, but I wasn't 
          able to let you know I wouldn't be 
          corning...
               (He fondles her, but he is 
               tired, feels like 
               sleeping.) 
          Go to sleep now. Sleep.
     
     He turns over on the other side. CLARA shuts her eyes, is about to drop off, 
     but whispers.
     
                    CLARA  
          Your mother phoned. She took me for 
          somebody else...
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Surprised) 
          And what'd you tell her?
     
                    CLARA  
          I played dumb, so as not to 
          disappoint her. We had a nice little 
          talk. She says you never go see her, 
          and when she wants to see you she has 
          to come to Rome...Is it true?
     
     SALVATORE doesn't answer. God only knows how often he's heard that question 
     before.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          She phoned just to say that? 
     
     She reaches out to switch of the light, buries her head into the pillow.
     
                    CLARA  
          She said a certain Alfredo had died. 
          And the funeral's taking place 
          tomorrow afternoon...
               (A strange look suddenly 
               comes into SALVATORE'S 
               eyes. The idea of going to 
               sleep has clearly left 
               him. It's a piece of news 
               he didn't expect. That's 
               taken him off-guard. CLARA 
               would like to carry on the 
               conversation, but 
               sleepiness makes 
               it almost impossible. An 
               she can manage is one last 
               question in a faint little 
               voice:)
          Who is it? A relative of yours?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          No. Sleep. Go to sleep.
     
     She falls asleep in the dead silence of the night. SALVATORE is seized by a 
     sort of chill a deep, troubled feeling. He gazes through the window al the city, 
     with its shimmering lights still moving in the darkness, suddenly shrouded in a 
     heavy curtain of rain. But he gazes off, beyond the row of houses, beyond the 
     dark sky; the shadow of a wind chime plays across his face summoning up endless 
     memories, drawing forth from the infinite depths of oblivion a past that he 
     thought had vanished, been wiped out, and instead now re-emerges, comes back to 
     life, takes on light, superimposing itself on the mellow middle-aged features of 
     his face, in the shadow of the city shaken by the storm, until another image is 
     formed, an ancient, remote image...
     
     4  GIANCALDO. CHURCH AND SACRISTY. INT. MORNING
     
     An image from over forty years before. In the baroque church of
     Giancaldo. SALVATORE is nine years old. Dressed as an altar boy, he
     is kneeling by the altar with a little silver bell in his hands. The
     congregation is also kneeling. The PRIEST is consecrating the Host.
     Little SALVATORE has just got out of bed, is still half-asleep, yawns
     and doesn't notice that the PRIEST is standing there with the Host in
     the air glaring at him, as if trying to tell him something.
     
                    PRIEST  
          Pss! Pssst!
     
     SALVATORE finishes yawning and opening his eyes meets the
     withering look of the PRIEST. He gets the message at once and
     rings the bell. Now the PRIEST can carry on, lifts the chalice and
     the bell is heard again.
     
                              Cut to:
     
     The service is over. The PRIEST is in the sacristy removing his
     vestments. And SALVATORE is also there, removing his altar-boy
     tunic.
     
                    PRIEST  
          But how can I make you understand? 
          Without the bell I just can't go on! 
          Always half asleep, you are! What do 
          you do at night anyway? Eat instead 
          of sleep?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Father, at my house we don't even eat 
          at noon. That's why I'm always 
          sleepy. That's what the vet says.
     
     The PRIEST has finished disrobing. He takes the bell
     SALVATORE was holding during the service and turns to leave.
     
                    PRIEST  
          All right, Toto, get moving, I've got 
          things to do. Say hello to your 
          mother.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Can I...
     
                    PRIEST  
               (Interrupting him) 
          And don't ask if you can come...
          Because you can't!! Shoo, shoo, off 
          with you!!
     
     SALVATORE gives a shrug and leaves. The PRIEST goes down a
     corridor, opens a door, another corridor, and finally a door
     leading to an outside courtyard. He cuts across it and disappears
     into another door.
     
     5  CINEMA PARADISO AND PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. MORNING
     
     The PRIEST enters a movie house. Not very big  200 seats on the main
     floor and another seventy in the balcony. Along the walls, posters of
     films to be shown are stuck up between the light fixtures. In one corner,
     a statue of the Virgin Mary with flowers. The CLEANING LADY has
     finished work and is leaving. Up in the balcony, over the last row of
     seats, are the holes of the projection booth. The middle hole is
     camouflaged by the huge head of a roaring lion, all in plaster, and the
     lens of the projector can be glimpsed between its sharp teeth.
     there are two smaller holes, through which the figure of a man can be
     made out, appearing and disappearing...It is ALFREDO, the
     projectionist. He is around forty, skinny and bony with a tough
     peasant face. He has finished loading the projector and is checking the
     carbons in the arc lamp. Then he removes the glass from one of the
     holes and looks down into the theatre, at the PRIEST who waves his
     hand.
     
                    PRIEST  
          OK, Alfredo, you can start!!
     
     He sits down an by himself in the middle of the empty theatre.
     Up in the booth, ALFREDO lights the arc lamp and sets the
     projector going.
     
     Down in the theatre, the light goes off and out of the lion's mouth
     streams the glowing ray aimed al the screen. String music, sweet
     and ominous, spreads through the theatre. On the screen appear
     the credit titles of an American film of the 1940s. The PRIEST
     screws up his face and holds the bell in his right hand resting on
     the arm of his seat.
     
     At the back of the theatre, behind the last row, a curtain moves,
     opens a crack and SALVATORE'S gaunt little face appears. He
     has managed to sneak in somehow and stands there without a
     word, spellbound, watching the 'movie' on the glowing screen.
     The credit titles have long come and gone. The story is at a
     turning-point. 
     
     Up above, in the hole of the booth next to the lion,
     ALFREDO watches the film, but his eyes keep looking down at the
     PRIEST, who is now drumming the bell with his fingers. On the
     screen, the male and female lead, two Hollywood stars, are in
     close-up; the dialogue is passionate, romantic. SALVATORE,
     carried away by those faces, by the way they talk, by the beauty
     of the woman, slowly slips down the length of the curtain until he
     is sitting on the floor, his eyes glued to the screen. 
     
     The love scene reaches a climax, the music crescendos, and the love-struck 
     couple finally fall into each other's arms and kiss. Instinctively, the PRIEST 
     raises the bell into the air, as in some age-old ceremony, and gives it a loud 
     ring...
     
     Up in the booth ALFREDO hears the bell; it's the signal he's been
     waiting for. He takes a slip of paper from a pad prepared for that
     purpose and sticks it into the loops of the film containing that
     specific scene as it winds on to the reel. The projection
     continues...
     
     ...And also the kiss of the two actors. The PRIEST'S nervous look lingers on 
     those black-and-white lips meeting and now pulling apart for one last 
     declaration of love before separating. SALVATORE is wide-eyed, he's probably 
     never seen a man and woman kiss before, it's a vision that for him has all the 
     attraction of forbidden fruit, the horror of sin. The screen is now filled with 
     the figure of a woman getting undressed, showing for one instant the white, 
     voluptuous flesh of her broad, naked shoulders. SALVATORE stares in open-mouthed 
     wonder. The PRIEST, in a fury, grabs the bell and shakes it for all he is worth. 
     From the sound of the bell to another sound...
     
     6  GIANCALDO. MAIN SQUARE. EXT. DAY 
     
     The tolling of the bell-tower rings out over the 
     square. It is noon. The vast square, pale and dusty, is alive with people. A 
     noisy line of men, women and cows waits in front of the fountain to get water. 
     Peddlers hawk their wares in mournful cries. People come and go in front of the 
     town hall. The working men's club is deserted. The entrance of the Cinema 
     Paradiso is shut. Hanging outside is the poster of the film that has just been 
     seen on screen. Up above, the windows of the projection booth are open. The hum 
     of the projector can be heard and the loud, lofty music typical of 'THE END'. 
     Then dead silence. The showing is over.
     
     7. CINEMA PARADISO. PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. DAY
     
     Despite the speed, numerous white streaks spin around on the reel,
     created by the slips of paper ALFREDO has inserted into the loops. He
     is rewinding the film by hand on the film-winder. When he's not
     talking, ALFREDO usually sings to himself. SALVATORE stands beside
     him, taking in everything he does with those quick, thieving eyes of his
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Harshly, shouting) 
          You must not come here! How many 
          times do I have to tell you?
               (And he slows down the 
               reels with his hand. The 
               slips of paper
               are about to arrive. 
               Here's the first.)
          If the film catches fire, runt that 
          you are, you'd go up in a
          burst of flame...whoosh! And turn 
          into a piece of...
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Overlapping him)
          ...and turn into a piece of 
          charcoal!!
     
     He's used to his terrorisms, pays no more attention. Not even his
     grim look scares him. Anyway, ALFREDO catches the joke, starts to give him a 
     slap, but instead reaches over and picks up a pair of scissors.
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Angrily) 
          Christ, that's a sassy little tongue 
          you've got! Watch out, or someday 
          I'll snip it off. 
     
     And he snips a piece of film, pastes the ends together and goes on turning the 
     handle. SALVATORE picks up the strip of film and gives it a closer look. He sees 
     a series of frames all alike with a man kissing a woman.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Can I have it? 
     
     ALFREDO snatches it out of his hand, furiously, at the end of his string. He 
     shouts.
     
                    ALFREDO  
          No!!! Are you deaf or something? I've 
          got to put this back in when we wind 
          up the film again! You're a real pain 
          in the neck! 
     
     SALVATORE reaches into a basket full of strips of film. He takes out a handful: 
     all kisses that have been cut.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Then why didn't you put these back 
          when you wound up the films again? 
     
     ALFREDO is caught out. He stops the film where another slip of paper is stuck 
     in and cuts the scene:
     
                    ALFREDO  
          'Cause sometimes you can't find the 
          right place any more and so...well, 
          actually...they stay here. 
               (Finding an excuse) 
          Besides, there are more kisses than 
          you can count.
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Excited) 
          So I can have these? 
               (ALFREDO explodes, flies 
               off the handle. He grabs 
               SALVATORE by the shoulders 
               and shakes him.)
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Look, Toto! Before I kick your ass 
          all the way to China and back, let's 
          make a deal. These strips here are 
          yours, I give them to you. However! 
          One  you're not to stick your nose in 
          here any more. Two  I'll keep them 
          for you, because you can't take them 
          home for God forbid and save our 
          souls, if they catch fire, all hell 
          will break loose! OK? Oh!!! And now 
          scram! 
     
     He takes him and turns him towards the stairs. For him the matter is closed. He 
     returns to the film-winder. SALVATORE sneaks back and while ALFREDO's attention 
     is elsewhere, snatches up a handful of movie frames scattered on the counter, 
     stuffs them into his pocket and...
     
                    SALVATORE  
          What sort of deal is this? The strips 
          are mine! So why can't I come see 
          them? 
     
     And he stares at ALFREDO with a sly, saucy look. ALFREDO clutches his hand, 
     darts forth like an arrow and is about to give him a kick in the ass. He 
     shrieks:
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Get out!! And don't show your face 
          here again! 
     
     And before the kick reaches its destination, SALVATORE has already dashed off 
     down the spiral staircase.
     
     8  GIANCALDO. SALVATORE'S HOUSE. INT. EVENING
     
     That was not the first theft of film strips. SALVATORE's hand reaches
     into a flowery metal box jammed full of pieces of film. He takes out a
     few frames and holds them up against the kerosene lamp. Gazes at the
     figures that remind him of the films seen at Cinema Paradiso, and in a
     whisper mangles fragments of dialogue, the shooting of guns, the
     musical climaxes...
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Bang! Bang! Bang! Shoot first, think 
          later! This is no job for weaklings! 
          Treacherous dog!
     
     The house has no lights, is gloomy and cold. SALVATORE's
     mother, MARIA, is leaning on the table in front of him. She is
     young, around thirty, and her pretty face is haggard, marred by
     all the sacrifices. She is sewing some clothes, is a seamstress. LIA,
     his four-year-old sister, is sleeping on a cot in one corner. The
     kerosene lamp projects the trembling shadow of the film strips on
     the wall, figures of prairies, gunslingers, thugs. SALVATORE's
     voice changes, turns even tougher.
     
                    SALVATORE
          Hey there, you lousy bastard, take 
          your hands off that gold, You black-
          hearted pig, stay away from me, or 
          I'll smash your face in! 
          'Ntantatah!!!...
               (In the heap of movie 
               frames there are also 
               several photographs. 
               SALVATORE picks them up. 
               Family keepsakes. A man in 
               an army uniform. Then the 
               same man with a girl 
               beside him whose smiling 
               face can be recognized as 
               MARIA. SALVATORE takes a 
               closer look at the man's 
               face, then whispers to his 
               mother:)
          Ma, if the war's over, how come 
          Daddy's never come back?
     
     MARIA looks up at him with a sweet smile.
     
                    MARIA  
          He'll be back, he'll be back...
          You'll see. One of these
          days...
     
     But there is not much conviction written on her face. She looks
     back down at her sewing. SALVATORE goes on looking at the
     photos.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          I don't remember him any more—Ma, 
          where's Russia?
     
                    MARIA  
          It takes years to get there. And 
          years to come back...Now go to bed, 
          Toto, it's late.
     
     SALVATORE puts the photos back into the box and tucks the box
     under LIA's cot near the charcoal burner.
     
     9  GRADE SCHOOL. COURTYARD. EXT. DAY
     
     A noisy crowd of little children in black smocks, white collars and blue
     bows moves about the large courtyard where there are two tall palm
     trees. The boys head for one door, the girls towards the opposite one.
     The Janitors line them up two by two, ready to enter. Here and there,
     parents and relatives accompany the younger ones. Beneath one of the
     palms, SALVATORE pulls off the altar-boy tunic, stuffs it into the
     khaki-colored cardboard schoolbag, takes out the smock and puts it
     on, as one of his schoolmates passes by. It is MASINO, and he's crying
     desperately because he doesn't want to go to school. His FATHER drags
     him along, yelling:
     
                    MASINO'S FATHER
          You can fool your mother but not me! 
          Get yourself a damn diploma and 
          become a policeman. You good-for-
          nothing!
     
                    MASINO  
          I don't want to go to school'
               (The sound of the bell. 
               The black lines move up 
               the steps towards the 
               school.)
     
     1O  FOURTH GRADE. INT. DAY 
     
     SALVATORE is sitting at the front-row desk next to PEPPINO, 
     a little freckle-faced boy. His attention, like that of the whole class, is 
     concentrated on what is taking place at the blackboard. The TEACHER is standing 
     there, watching a plump little boy, shy and not quite all there, do a two-figure 
     multiplication  it is NICOLA SCORSONE, known as 'COLA'. He is red in the face, 
     has one purple ear and one white one. He stares in terror at that '255 x 15' 
     written on the blackboard. The TEACHER yells, waving a birch rod in her hand. 
     
                    TEACHER  
          Well then?! Five times five 
          equals...? 
     
     COLA stops to think a moment, then... 
     
                    COLA  
          Thirty!
     
     The TEACHER grabs him by the purple ear and bashes his head against the numbers 
     on the blackboard. A large thud echoes through the room, followed by a roar of 
     laughter. The TEACHER slams her rod on the desk.
     
                    TEACHER  
          Silence!! 
               (Then to COLA) 
          The five times table. Dunce! One 
          times five, five!!
               (The class repeats with 
               the TEACHER, in a sing-
               song chorus:)
     
                    TEACHER and CLASS  
          Two times five, ten! Three times 
          five, fifteen! Four times five, 
          twenty!
               (With a wave of the rod, 
               the TEACHER silences the 
               class, and finishes the 
               sing-song with the fateful 
               question.)
     
                    TEACHER  
          Five times five?
     
                    COLA  
               (Timidly) 
          Forty...?
     
     Another blow of the head on the blackboard. Hubbub.
     Slapping of the rod on the desk. SALVATORE secretly shows
     COLA the picture of a Christmas tree on one page of the book,
     and mouths the word 'twenty-five'. COLA smiles, he has finally
     caught on.
     
                    TEACHER  
          I'm asking you for the last time, 
          blockhead! Five times five equals...?
               (COLA turns to her with 
               smiling eyes and answers 
               blissfully:)
     
                    COLA  
          Christmas!!
     
     SALVATORE clutches his head in anger, watches the TEACHER
     flogging COLA on the back with the rod. COLA screams at every
     blow, and at every blow the laughter in the class grows louder.
     SALVATORE stares at the rod moving up and down rhythmically. But he is not 
     thinking of the pain his schoolmate is feeling, but is drawn, rather, by that 
     strange regular beat, finds it similar to another regular beat, that of...
     
     11  CINEMA PARADISO. BALCONY AND MAIN FLOOR. INT. DAY
     
     ...the rolling pin ALFREDO uses to flatten out a reel of film that has just 
     been unloaded. SALVATORE carefully watches ALFREDO 5 every move. He is not in 
     the projection booth, but up in the balcony, standing on top of the last row of 
     seats. He peers through the hole next to the lion's head. His bright little eyes 
     fix in his mind the things ALFREDO does, as he loads the film into the 
     projector, shuts the fireproof housings, turns on the amplifier, checks the 
     carbons in the arc lamp, then lowers his head to have a look into the theatre 
     and finds himself face to face with SALVATORE.
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Sternly) 
          What are you doing here? 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          I bought a ticket. I've come to see 
          the film.
               (Meanwhile the USHER comes 
               up behind him and grabs 
               him by the collar, and he 
               almost jumps out of his 
               skin. ALFREDO laughs.)
     
                    USHER  
               (Yelling) 
          Go sit downstairs! You good-for-
          nothing sponger! ! 
               (To the audience) 
          Worse than rabbits they are!
     
     SALVATORE has run downstairs. The main floor is more
     crowded than the balcony, like every Sunday, and there is a greatdin. The BOY 
     selling ice-cream, soda pop and candy shouts and
     runs around like a chicken with its head off. Now the lights dim,
     the hubbub dies down and the performance starts. Before the film
     there is a preview for Stagecoach. The screen fills with images ofJohn Wayne, 
     the pursuit of the stagecoach by hostile Indians
     etc...
     
     SALVATORE is sitting in the front rows, right under the screen,
     next to BOCCIA, COLA, MASINO, PEPPINO and OTHER KIDS, all with their noses in 
     the air. BOCCIA, the biggest show off of the group, is smoking a cigarette. An 
     OLD MAN appears through the entrance curtain, takes a couple of steps and 
     shouts:)
     
                    FIRST OLD MAN  
          Hello, everybody!
     
                    AUDIENCE  
               (At once) 
          Ssssssh!!! Ssssssh! Silence!
     
                    FIRST OLD MAN  
          Can't I say hello?
     
                    USHER  
          It's a double-feature today.
     
                    FIRST OLD MAN  
          I couldn't care less. I come here to 
          sleep.
     
     All at once, a chorus of shouts and whistles fills the theatre. Up
     on the screen, a globe of the world appears, spinning among the
     stars, the logo announcing the newsreel.
     
                    AUDIENCE  
               (Hooting and whistling) 
          For Christ's sake! Cut it, 
          Alfredoooo!
     
     The CHILDREN in the front rows also yell, but SALVATORE goes
     on being alert. He turns and looks up at the holes of the projection
     booth, as if it were an impregnable fortress. He watches the crazy
     dancing of light in the glowing stream that opens towards him in a
     cone. And besides, that lion's head, mysterious, almost gruesome,
     emphasizes the enigmatic secret of the movies. In his dreamy eyes,
     that lifeless lion seems to wake up with a ferocious roar.
     
     SALVATORE has a frightened look...Another lion roaring. But up on the screen. 
     The MGM lion. The throng of children imitate the famous growl all together, 
     shaking their heads in unison.
     
                    CHILDREN  
          Grrrr! Grrrrr! 
     
     The film starts: it is Visconti's La terra trema. SALVATORE is in bliss. His 
     wide eyes looking up at the magic square of light. The title music. Another OLD 
     MAN enters at the back of the theatre, but before sitting down, says hello in a 
     loud voice.
     
                    SECOND OLD MAN  
          Greetings to one and all!
     
                    AUDIENCE  
          SSSSSH' Drop dead! Silence! Hey, 
          kids, we're here to see the film! 
     
     Now there is an important sequence. The audience is silent. Concentrated on the 
     screen. BOCCIA passes the lighted cigarette to SALVATORE. He takes a puff and 
     hands it on to the others without ever taking his eyes off the screen. The 
     beautiful star of the film appears on screen. A different kind of attention 
     takes hold of the excited audience. SALVATORE and the others stare at her with 
     open mouths...She leans towards the leading man, a languid expression, their 
     profiles touch. But all at once, just at the best part, there is a sudden jolt. 
     
     The kiss isn't seen.
     
                    AUDIENCE  
               (Disappointed) 
          Ahhh! What a shame! I've been going 
          to the movies for twenty years and I 
          never saw a kiss! 
     
     SALVATORE is the only one to laugh to himself. He knows what has happened.
     
                    AUDIENCE  
          And when will we see one? 
     
     Up in the balcony, the audience is more sedate. The tickets cost more and the 
     people are richer, more refined. Among them, a MAN with a moustache, the look of 
     a public notary, is sitting right in front of the railing. Seriously, without 
     batting an eye, he spits down below with contempt. Right on the dot, a voice is 
     heard, followed by a chorus of protests.
     
                    VOICE and AUDIENCE  
          Bugger!!! Ssssh!!! Silence!!
     
     12  SQUARE AND ENTRANCE OF CINEMA PARADISO. EXT. NIGHT
     
     The bell-tower rings midnight. The square is nearly deserted. Except
     for a landowner near the refreshment stand, with a moustache and a
     hat, DON VINCENZO by name, who is picking out from a group of
     labourers the men he'll be needing in the country at dawn. He chooses,
     points his finger, calls...
     
     People come out of the movie house after the last showing.
     The USHER locks the front door as ALFREDO climbs down from the
     projection booth. Among the crowd there is only one kid, SALVATORE.
     Tired, half-asleep. He's seen all the showings. He starts to walk away
     when he catches sight of his mother standing on the opposite corner,
     wrapped in an old coat. She's waiting for him, in a temper.
     SALVATORE drops his eyes to the ground, mortified. He knows what's
     coming. He goes over to her timidly, uncertain, gives her a questioning
     look.
     
                    MARIA  
          I've been looking for you all day. 
          Did you buy the milk?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          No...
     
                    MARIA  
          Then where's the money?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Somebody stole it.
     
     MARIA gives him a slap. SALVATORE holds back the sobs, but
     his eyes brim with tears. ALFREDO and the USHER are nearby,
     have heard everything.
     
                    MARIA  
          What'd you do with the money? Go to 
          the movies?
     
     SALVATORE nods his head and the sobs increase. MARIA, in
     despair, flies off the handle, slaps him again, but looks as if she
     doesn't really want to, as if deep down she forgives her son's
     escapade. ALFREDO catches on, speaks up on behalf of
     SALVATORE.
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Signora Maria, don't do that. He's 
          just a kid. 
               (To SALVATORE) 
          And why are you telling fibs? 
               (To MARIA) 
          We let him in free. He must have lost 
          the money inside the movie
          theatre...
               (SALVATORE stares at him 
               in amazement, goes on 
               listening to him.)
          How much did you have?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Fifty lire...
               (MARIA wipes away his tears.)
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (To the USHER) 
          What you find tonight on the floor 
          between the seats?
               (The USHER reaches into-
               his pockets, pulls out 
               some odds and ends.)
     
                    USHER  
          A comb, two heel-savers, a box of 
          tobacco...
               (ALFREDO very skillfully 
               reaches out with fifty 
               lire he has taken
               from his pocket. And like 
               a magician he draws the 
               money out of
               the USHER'S hand.)
     
                    ALFREDO 
          ...and fifty lire! 
               (To MARIA) 
          See?
               (He hands over the money 
               under the USHER'S 
               astonished eyes.)
     
                    MARIA  
          Thanks, Uncle Alfredo. Thanks. Good-
          night.
     
     She walks away, dragging SALVATORE by the hand. ALFREDO
     gives him a wink. SALVATORE smiles and winks back, but he's
     not very good at it; he can't manage to shut only one eye.
     Everybody leaves and the square empties, as the VILLAGE IDIOT
     comes up to the group of labourers, beside DON VINCENZO,
     motioning them all to get moving.
     
                    IDIOT  
          It's midnight. I've got to shut down 
          the square! Go away.
          The square's mine! The square's 
          mine!!
     
     13  CEMETERY ROAD AND VILLAGE ROAD. EXT. DAY
     
     SALVATORE, dressed as an altar boy, walks alongside the PRIEST
     who is wearing the ceremonial vestments. They are tired, have walked
     a long way. Behind them a donkey pulls a wagon containing a little
     white coffin and a bunch of flowers. Behind that a little procession  the
     parents and relatives of the dead child. The road is very wide, covered
     with white earth. The spring sun is dazzling. The funeral procession
     kicks up a cloud of dust that makes everything blurred and hazy, like a
     dream, rimmed around the horizon by the blue line of the sea. The
     procession now turns into the large gate of the cemetery. ALFREDO,
     working in the fields, takes his hat off and watches the coffin as it passes by.
     
                              Cut to:
     
     The funeral is over. The PRIEST and SALVATORE are walking back
     to the village. ALFREDO appears out of the countryside on e bicycle
     with a hoe and other farm tools in the basket. He comes pedaling up
     beside them.
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Good morning, father. It's hard on 
          the feet, huh?
     
                    PRIEST  
               (Breathless) 
          Yeah!...Getting there's downhill and 
          all the saints help you. But coming 
          back! The saints stand there watching 
          you, that's all! God's will be done.
     
     SALVATORE is about to open his mouth, wants to say something
     to ALFREDO, but he doesn't have time. ALFREDO pedals harder
     and rides off.
     
     SALVATORE is crestfallen. He looks et the PRIEST, then at the bicycle riding 
     away. His eyes light up  an idea! He suddenly yells:
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Ouch! Ouch! My foot! I can't walk!
     
     He limps. Throws himself to the ground as if a snake had bitten him. The PRIEST 
     leans over in alarm. Up ahead in the distance, ALFREDO turns around to look.
     
                              Cut to:
     
     There is a smile on SALVATORE'S face. He is riding on the crossbar of ALFREDO's 
     bicycle. On their way back lo the village.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Alfredo, did you know my father?
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Of course I knew your father. He was 
          tall, thin, pleasant, and had a 
          moustache like mine. Always smiling. 
          He looked like Clark Gable. 
     
     There's something SALVATORE wants to talk about, but he doesn't know how to 
     start. He has a try with an innocent stratagem.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Alfredo, now that I'm older, I'm not 
          saying I can start coming to the 
          projection booth, to the movie 
          house...But...maybe, why don't we 
          become friends? 
     
     ALFREDO knows exactly what the little rascal is up to, and answers in a 
     strange, theatrical tone, as if he were repeating something he knows by heart, a 
     remark taken from some old film.
     
                    ALFREDO  
               'I choose my friends for their 
          looks, and my enemies for their 
          brains...' 
               (Laughs) 
          You're too smart to be my friend. 
          Besides, as I always tell my kids, be 
          careful to pick the right friends!
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Surprised) 
          But you don't have any kids!!!
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Spluttering) 
          All right, all right! When I've got 
          kids that's what I'm telling them! 
               (The outlying houses of 
               Giancaldo finally heave 
               into sight.)
     
     14  SALVATORE S HOUSE. EXT. DAY
     
     LIA, SALVATORE'S kid sister, is crying outside the front door, terror
     stricken. Her face is smeared with smoke and her little dress half
     scorched and soaking wet. MARIA is distraught, damp with sweat, and
     tries to console her, hugging her in her arms.
     
                    MARIA  
          Stop crying...The fire is out...I'm 
          here...That'll do, that'll do...
               (ALFREDO and SALVATORE 
               come up behind them. 
               SALVATORE has barely leapt 
               off the bicycle when his 
               mother sails into him like 
               a fury, shrieking:)
          Miserable boy! You're the ruin of me! 
          Your sister would have been burnt 
          alive if I hadn't been there! And all 
          your fault!
     
     SALVATORE darts off, chased by his mother, swift as a deer.
     ALFREDO doesn't understand what has happened, leans over
     LIA, who goes on bawling her eyes out, and sees on the ground, in
     the middle of the water, a flowery box all charred and still
     smoking, and all around scraps of film reduced to ashes and
     several singed photographs, the photos of SALVATORE s father.
     ALFREDO gets the message now, looks up at MARIA, who has
     caught SALVATORE and is dragging him home, hitting and
     slapping him all the way. SALVATORE covers his head with his
     hands to stave off the blows. MARIA turns to ALFREDO, in a
     stern, indignant voice.
     
                    MARIA
          But aren't you ashamed of yourself, 
          Uncle Alfredo, playing with a little 
          boy at your age?!
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Cowed) 
          But...what's it got to do with 
          me?...
     
                    MARIA  
          And who gave him all those films? 
          Promise you won't give him any more 
          of this trash! Don't let him set foot 
          any more in the movie house. The 
          boy's crazy! Crazy! All he talks 
          about is movies and Alfredo' Alfredo 
          and movies!! 
     
     ALFREDO is crestfallen, didn't think that SALVATORE'S craziness, his morbid 
     passion for movies, could go this far.
     
                    ALFREDO  
          I give you my word, Donna Maria. 
               (MARIA now turns one last 
               time to her son.)
     
                    MARIA  
          God's got to grant me one wish! Send 
          your father back home! And he'll see 
          you get what's coming to you! 
               (SALVATORE lowers his 
               hands, looks at her and 
               with the dreadful 
               sincerity of children:)
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Daddy's not coming back...He's dead. 
               (An icy flash runs through 
               MARIA'S eyes.)
     
                    MARIA  
          It's not true! No! It's not true!!! 
          I'll show you he's coming back!
     
     And she beats him desperately, as if to enforce her stubborn hope, slap after 
     slap. This time ALFREDO doesn't step in, lets MARIA give vent 
     to her rage and fury, but SALVATORE'S cries make him feel guilty.
     
     15:SQUARE AND PROJECTION BOOTH. EXT/INT. DAY 
     
     Another Sunday. A crowd of men has gathered in the square around the café where 
     there is a loudspeaker. They are listening to the running commentary of the 
     soccer games. They check their Sisal pools coupons. NICOLO CAROSIO'S VOICE 
     ...We're at the seventh minute of the second half. Turin is leading one to 
     zero. The goal was scored by...(The scene is seen from above, by ALFREDO who 
     peers out of the window of the projection booth. CAROSIO'S voice drowns out the 
     soundtrack of the film being shown. ALFREDO is bored. He goes over to the 
     projector, looks through the hole...It's the last sequence of the film. The 
     music swells to a climax as 'THE END' appears on the screen. Swift as ever, 
     ALFREDO turns on the lights in the theatre' stops the projector. Looks back 
     through the hole, to see...)
     
     16:CINEMA PARADISO. INT/EXT. DAY
     
     ...the house packed to the rafters. Voices and laughter of the children. Smoke, 
     ice-cream, soft drinks. The USHER has opened the emergency exits to let in air. 
     He fights off the gate-crashers who are trying to get in free. The sound of the 
     sports commentary fills the theatre. The village BLACKSMITH is sleeping in his 
     seat, his head thrown back and his mouth wide open. The KIDS blow up the empty 
     ice-cream sacks and pop them next to his ears. Bang! The BLACKSMITH wakes up 
     with a start, in a sea of laughter. He yells:  
     
                    BLACKSMITH  
          Ah! I'll wring all your necks!! Or my 
          good name means nothing! !! Lousy 
          brats! 
     
     SALVATORE doesn't laugh. He is sad. He turns and looks up at the projection 
     booth. He sees ALFREDO through the lion's mouth. ALFREDO also catches sight of 
     him. SALVATORE gives him a timid wave of the hand, as if asking if he can come 
     up a moment. The look on ALFREDO'S face is unmistakable, irrevocable: N0! 
     SALVATORE'S not surprised; after what happened it won't be easy to win him over. 
     Yet there must be some way. But what is it? As usual, SALVATORE is smart as the 
     devil when he's out to get something. Through the emergency exit he sees a woman 
     pass by with a packet in her hand. It is ALFREDO's WIFE, and the packet is his 
     supper. SALVATORE leaps to his feet and runs out to her.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Signora Anna!
     
     17  CINEMA PARADISO. PROJECTION ROOM AND SQUARE. INT/EXT. DAY
     
     ALFREDO starts up the projector. It's time for the documentaries and
     cartoons. SALVATORE peers in from the top of the stairs. He's scared of
     ALFREDO'S reaction, but pricks up his courage and shows him the
     packet. ALFREDO sees him, is about to pounce on him...
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (On the defensive) 
          Your wife told me to bring you this. 
     
     His expression betrays the 'put on'. ALFREDO sighs, realizes it's another one of 
     his little games.
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Sternly) 
          Give it to me!...
     
     He takes the packet, unwraps it and lifts the lid, shuts it again and puts the 
     container inside the lamp of the projector to keep it warm. SALVATORE hasn't 
     missed a single gesture, but speaks with his eyes 
     to the poor.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          I told my mother you weren't the one 
          who gave me the films. That it 
          wasn't your fault. But I thought you 
          said the film could catch fire just 
          to scare me. Now that I know, I won't 
          steal any more from you. That's all I 
          wanted to say. I'm going. 
               (He turns to leave but 
               ALFREDO takes him by the 
               shoulder and stops 
               him.)
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Toto, come here. 
     
     All things considered, there is something in that little boy, maybe his 
     feverish passion, that strikes him. He'll talk to him seriously, without 
     resorting to terrorism, try to convince him. He lowers the volume of the 
     monitor, sits down on the stool. SALVATORE raises his eyes from the floor and 
     looks at him at last...
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Now listen to what I've got to say. I 
          took up this profession when I 
          was ten years old. In those days 
          there weren't these modern machines. 
          The films were silent. The projectors 
          were run by hand, like this, with a 
          crank. And you wound the crank all 
          day long. It was really rough going! 
          If you got tired and slowed down' 
          boom! Everything would go up in 
          flames!
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Then why don't you want to teach it 
          to me too? Now that there's no more 
          cranking, and it's easier?
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Firmly) 
          Because I don't want to, Toto! This 
          is not a job for you. It's like being 
          a slave. You're always alone. You see 
          the same film over and over again, 
          because you have nothing else to do. 
          And you start talking to Greta Garbo 
          and Tyrone Power like a nut! You work 
          on holidays, on Christmas, on Easter. 
          Only on Good Friday are you free. But 
          if they hadn't put Jesus Christ on a 
          cross...You'd work Good Fridays too! 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Then why don't you change jobs? 
               (ALFREDO sighs, irritated. 
               He reaches out to turn the 
               knob of the carbon rods. 
               He gazes at SALVATORE as 
               if he were a grown-up, 
               somebody who's making 
               things hard for him.)
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Because I'm an idiot. How many other 
          guys in town know how to be a 
          projectionist? None! Only a jerk like 
          me could do it. Besides I wasn't 
          lucky. When I was a kid there was the 
          war! When I grew up, another war! Now 
          it's all different. Times have 
          changed. And you want to be a dope 
          like me? Huh? Answer me!
     
                    SALVATORE  
          No...
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Good for you, Toto. Good for you...
          I'm only saying this for your own 
          good...
               (He gets up and, speaking 
               all the while, goes into a 
               closet with a bucket 
               in it, the toilet of the 
               booth. He turns his back 
               and pees. )
          Cooped up in here you die of heat in 
          the summer and of cold in the winter. 
          You breathe in smoke, gas fumes, and 
          earn practically nothing. 
               (SALVATORE listens to 
               him, but taking advantage 
               of the fact he can't be 
               seen, he turns the knob of 
               the carbon rods, just as 
               he had seen done a moment 
               before...)
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (In a loud voice) 
          But don't you like anything about 
          what you do? 
               (SALVATORE gazes at the 
               photos on the wall: 
               Keaton, Garbo, Snow 
               White. ALFREDO 
               smiles to himself. Sure, 
               there's something about 
               that damn job he likes:)
     
                    ALFREDO  
          With time...you get used to it. 
          Besides, when you hear from up here 
          that there's a full house and that 
          people are laughing, having fun...
          Then you're happy too.
               (ALFREDO is lost in 
               thought, doesn't notice 
               that the documentaries
               and cartoons have 
               finished. The screen is 
               blank. And down in the
               theatre laughter is not 
               heard but an uproar of 
               whistling and
               swearing. SALVATORE'S eyes 
               sparkle, he seizes the 
               opportunity.
               He turns on the lights and 
               stops the projector, just 
               as ALFREDO
               would have done. At which 
               ALFREDO buttons up his 
               pants in a
               hurry and rushes over 
               alarmed, but sees that 
               everything is in order.
               SALVATORE looks at him all 
               smiles, as if he expected 
               a medal for
               civil bravery. Instead, 
               ALFREDO reacts like a wild 
               animal.)
          So I've been wasting my breath? You 
          pretend to agree with
          me, but as soon as my back is turned, 
          you do what you want!
               (He gives SALVATORE a kick 
               in the ass, shrieking:)
          Get out of here! I don't want to lay 
          eyes on you again! This is
          the last straw! Your mother's right, 
          you're crazy!!
               (He pushes him towards the 
               stairs. SALVATORE suddenly
               vanishes, scared out of 
               his wits. ALFREDO talks to 
               himself, in a
               fury:)
          But how'd he do it? The little 
          bastard! By watching, he's
          learned! It's incredible!
               (He peers out of the 
               window, yelling, as he 
               sees SALVATORE
               running through the 
               square. )
          I'm letting the box office know  
          you're not to set foot even into
          the theatre! There are no more 
          tickets for you! And I'm also
          talking to Father Adelfio! You won't 
          be an altar boy any more
          either!!! You little runt!
               (SALVATORE looks at him. 
               Hates him. Yells something 
               offensive:)
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Alfredo, go fuck yourself!!! 
               (But his words are drowned 
               out by the sudden shouting 
               of the people outside the 
               café.)
     
                    CROWD  
          Goal!! Holy Mother of God!!! 
               (A MAN in the crowd 
               crumples to the ground. 
               The others swarm around 
               him, alarmed. They hold up 
               his head. His face is 
               pale. They check the 
               coupon he is clutching in 
               his hand. A voice rises 
               like a siren from the 
               crowd.)
     
                    MAN  
          Ciccio Spaccafico's won the 
          Sisal!!!!!
               (The yell can be heard...)
     
     I8  CINEMA PARADISO. INT. DAY
     
     ...inside the movie house. The audience murmurs. Somebody opens
     an emergency exit...
     
                    SPECTATOR'S VOICE  
          The Neapolitan's won the lottery!!! 
          Let's go see, kids!!! Northerners are 
          always lucky!
               (The whole audience leaps 
               up and heads for the exit. 
               Pushing. Shouting. 
               Laughing and Joking. )
     
     19  SQUARE AND VILLAGE. EXT. MORNING 
     
     Summer has come. The village has a different look. The peddlers sing their 
     monotonous refrains in the village streets. In one street, women are busy 
     canning tomatoes. In one corner of the square, the SHEARER has finished clipping 
     the donkey and is now shaving the hair of a row of bare-chested URCHINS with 
     nothing on but their underwear. Then another MAN disinfects them by spraying 
     them with the hand pumps used to spray trees in the country. The URCHINS 
     laugh. The BILL-POSTER is hanging up the posters of a new film, 'TODAY AT CINEMA
     PARADISO .
     
     20  GRADE SCHOOL DINING HALL. INT. MORNING 
     
     The fifth-grade exams. In the vast dining hall all the children are seated, one 
     for each desk, under the watchful eyes of the teachers. SALVATORE, BOCCIA, 
     PEPPINO, MASINO and COLA have taken places here and there, as nervous as 
     everybody else. The EXAMINING BOARD MEMBER is dictating the text of the 
     arithmetic problem. 
     
                    EXAMINING BOARD MEMBER  
          A merchant owns two stores. In the 
          first he sells fruit and vegetables. 
          In the second he sells nails and 
          cement...
               (The PRINCIPAL comes in, 
               interrupts the dictation.) 
     
                    PRINCIPAL  
          Excuse me, professor. Here are the 
          men taking the exam for the 
          elementary school certificate. 
               (Turning to the door) 
          Come in, please...
               (All the children turn to 
               look. A MAN around thirty 
               enters, ill at ease. The 
               children recognize him and 
               laugh mischievously. The 
               second is the BLACKSMITH, 
               the one who falls asleep 
               at the movies. The third 
               is a twenty-year-old-boy, 
               ANGELO. The fourth is 
               ALFREDO, embarrassed and 
               red in the face. SALVATORE 
               is speechless. Gives a 
               slightly ironic laugh. 
               There is a look of revenge 
               in his shrewd little 
               eyes.)
     
                              Cut to:
     
     The assignment is now being carried out. There is dead silence in the 
     hall. 
     
     TEACHERS and the PRINCIPAL moue about, checking to be sure there are no notes 
     being handed around or other forms of 'collaboration'. The four outsiders are 
     having a hard time. It can be seen on their faces. ALFREDO is also in trouble, 
     doesn't know how to solve the problem, the calculations are too diff cult. He 
     looks at the desk next to him, where SALVATORE is sitting. SALVATORE is about to 
     look up at him, but ALFREDO immediately looks away, too proud to let himself be 
     seen. 
     
     The exchange of glances continues, grotesque, almost comical. SALVATORE 
     meanwhile writes down numbers and operations quite quickly. ALFREDO can't stand 
     it any longer, is nervous, beaded with sweat. He's sorry he ever showed up. 
     SALVATORE laughs up his sleeve, now he has the upper hand. ALFREDO tries 
     sneaking a look at his exercise book in order to copy something. But SALVATORE 
     turns his back, hiding it from sight. ALFREDO tries sneaking a look at somebody 
     else's exercise book, but the damn kid also covers it. It looks like a 
     conspiracy against him. ALFREDO has no way out. He has to accept the idea of 
     eating humble pie. He looks at SALVATORE, motions him with his eyes in a 
     conversation of glances. He asks for help, but SALVATORE stands firm, 
     implacable. 
     
     ALFREDO tries to put it into words in a low voice.
     
                    ALFREDO 
          YOU jerk. Tell me how to solve this 
          fucking problem! 
     
                    TEACHER  
          Ssssh! Silence back there!! 
     
     ALFREDO insists with his eyes. SALVATORE makes him understand with gestures 
     that he could help him maybe, but...on one condition. He imitates the gesture 
     of winding the crank of the projector. ALFREDO gets the message. It's pure 
     blackmail. He rubs his hand over his sweating face, raises his eyes to the 
     ceiling as if he were swearing. Then he surrenders, accepts the condition. 
     SALVATORE is serious, does not flaunt his victory, but you can tell he is happy. 
     He takes out a sheet of paper he had already prepared, with the solution to the 
     problem, rolls it up into a tiny ball and as soon as the TEACHER passes by, 
     takes aim and flicks it to him. ALFREDO'S hand catches the precious and dearly 
     bought message in mid-air. Their quarrel is over.
     
     2I  VARIOUS SETTINGS. INT. DAY/EVENING
     
     A bright, lilting tune marks the rhythm of the quick, blurred images, as
     in a dance, the images of ALFREDO teaching SALVATORE all the
     secrets of the projectionist trade.
     
     ALFREDO slips the reel on to the projector, unrolls the trailer and hands
     it to SALVATORE. SALVATORE mounts the film on the sprockets.
     Now SALVATORE sets the projector into motion, opens the shutter and
     stands on tip-toe to see the screen from the hole...
     
     A shot from In nome della legge. The main-floor audience applauds a
     line spoken by Massimo Gironi. And from the balcony, the same little
     MAN with the face of a public notary spits below.
     
                    MAIN FLOOR VOICE  
          Bastard!! Pencil-pusher!!
     
     ALFREDO shows SALVATORE the running of the film. He points
     to a place on the projector.
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Pay attention. This is where it can 
          easily catch fire. If it
          happens, the first thing you've got 
          to do is break it off, here
          and here, so the whole reel doesn't 
          go up in fames.
     
     On the screen, a shot from Riso amaro. A kiss. Unrelenting, the PRIEST rings his 
     bell. SALVATORE licks the film on one side, then on the other. He laughs.
     
                    ALFREDO 
          You understand which side the 
          gelatin's on?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          It tastes wonderful!
     
     A shot of Amedeo Nazzari in La figlia del capitano. A jump,
     an out-of-rack frame. The audience whistles.
     
                    AUDIENCE  
          Fraaaame!! Wake up, Alfredo!
               (SALVATORE tries to do a 
               hand-binding. ALFREDO 
               winds the film, hangs a 
               slip on a nail in the 
               wall.)
     
                    ALFREDO  
          These are the shipping invoices for 
          the film. They are always to be kept. 
          You see?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          OK, Alfredo.
     
     Down on the main floor, a scene from Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde.
     Everyone screams and hides their faces when Hyde looks at the
     camera.
     
                    AUDIENCE  
          Holy Mother! What a face! So ugly!
     
     One young man, ANGELO, doesn't hide his face. He looks up at
     a young woman, ROSA, in the balcony, who turns and smiles at
     him.
     
     ALFREDO gives SALVATORE a wooden stool. He's had it made especially for him, so 
     he can be high enough to reach the reels of the projector and the arc lamp. 
     SALVATORE climbs up on it. He laughs, all excited. 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Now you can run it by yourself. 
     
     SALVATORE gives another smile. He is posing in a photographer's studio . He is 
     all dressed up for first communion, holding a white lily. The flash goes off 
     like lightning during a storm. Now SALVATORE is posing next to his mother and 
     little sister. They smile without hugging. Another flash of light. Click!
     
     22  FIFTH GRADE. INT. DAY
     
     Another click. The transparency of Rita Hayworth in her black gown
     from Gilda. MASINO is pasting it inside a minute pair of plastic field
     glasses. Other pupils crowd around him in excitement.
     
                    MASINO  
               (In a whisper) 
          Christ, what a piece of ass!!!
     
     But there is not a cheerful atmosphere in the class - on the
     contrary, a strange silence. The pupils are all standing around the
     teacher's desk, having received their end-of-the-year report cards.
     PEPPINO, who shared SALVATORE s desk, is saying goodbye to
     his schoolmates. BOCCIA, COLA, the others. They have serious,
     sad expressions. He and SALVATORE kiss like grown-ups. The
     TEACHER is standing among them. One of the schoolmates does
     not respond lo PEPPINO's goodbye gesture. He takes a few steps
     back, serious, scared, his eyes lowered.
     
                    TEACHER  
          Di Francesco, aren't you saying 
          goodbye to your schoolmate?
               (DI FRANCESCO gives his 
               head a little shake. The 
               TEACHER leans over to 
               him.)
          But why?
               (DI FRANCESCO whispers, 
               almost into her ear.)
     
                    DI FRANCESCO  
          My father says he's a Communist...
     
     23  SQUARE AND PROJECTION BOOTH, CINEMA PARADISO. EXT/INT. DAY 
     
     Another farewell scene in the square. PEPPINO to his grandparents. His father 
     and mother are also there, saying goodbye to the old folks. There are tears. The 
     cardboard suitcases tied with string are loaded on to the luggage rack of the 
     black car. The scene is watched by SALVATORE and ALFREDO, up in the window of 
     the projection booth. They look like old friends. On the sound monitor, the 
     strains of some American musical comedy tune. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Will they really find work in 
          Germany? 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Who knows?...It's like an adventure. 
               (In a theatrical voice) 
          Hope springs eternal...
               (PEPPINO from the distance 
               gives one last wave at the 
               window of the 
               projection booth. 
               SALVATORE waves back.) 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Peppinoooo! Come back sooon!! 
               (The black car drives off, 
               leaving a cloud of dust 
               that envelops the 
               suppressed sobs of the 
               grandparents standing 
               there waving      
               handkerchiefs. SALVATORE 
               watches the car drive off. 
               He mumbles:) 
          Good thing Germany's closer than 
          Russia. 
     
     ALFREDO rubs his hand through his hair.
     
     24  CINEMA PARADISO. BALCONY AND BOOTH. INT. EVENING
     
     The lion's head with the beam of light, seen from the balcony.
     SALVATORE'S face appears in the hole beside it, as he peers down at the
     images of the Settimana Incom newsreel.
     The audience is distracted. The snoring of a man sleeping can be heard.
     A pair of urchins pick up a cockroach with their hands, tip-toe down the
     aisle. The sleeping man is the same old BLACKSMITH, with his head
     thrown back. A little hand drops the cockroach into the gaping mouth.
     The URCHINS take to their heels. The BLACKSMITH squirms, wake up
     with a start. Spits, while everybody laughs. The newsreel is now about
     missing soldiers in Russia.
     
                    COMMENTATOR  
          The Defense Minister has announced a 
          new listof names of Italian soldiers, 
          so far considered missing and now
          confirmed as dead. Families concerned 
          will be notified directly by military 
          authorities.
     
     SALVATORE pays careful attention, sees the black-and-white
     shots of the last war. The Russian campaign. The troops in the
     snow. Now in detail a heap of personal objects found on the
     corpses. Documents, clothing, glasses, photographs. One quick
     detail catches SALVATORE's eye  among those photographs, for one
     instant he sees one he thinks he recognizes. He quickly sticks a slip of paper 
     into the take-up reel, as when marking the kisses to be cut.
     
     25  PREFECTURE. CITY. INT. DAY
     
     The hands of an OFFICIAL tear off several forms and give them to
     MARIA who is sitting in front of the desk. She is dressed in black.
     SALVATORE stands beside her, holding her hand. They have black
     bands on their arms. An empty stare in their eyes.
     MARIA is pale, a cold look in her sunken eyes. Her heart is bursting in
     her breast. And a lump in her throat prevents her from speaking. She
     looks at her husband's belongings, identifies them  a gold chain, an ID
     card and the photograph, the one SALVATORE saw in the newsreel.
     MARIA strokes it with her fingers. SALVATORE comes up and looks, as
     the OFFICIAL concludes:
     
                    OFFICIAL 
          ...Unfortunately we don't know what 
          war cemetery he's buried in...This 
          is the form for the pension. If you'd 
          like to sign it...
     
     26  PREFECTURE AND CITY STREET. EXT. DAY 
     
     MARIA walks through the city. She holds SALVATORE by the hand. SALVATORE looks 
     up, trying to catch her eye. He sees her crying, in silence. The heartbroken 
     tears of someone who has lost the one last hope, but held back, so as not to be 
     seen by the child. SALVATORE presses close and puts his arm around her waist. 
     They turn the corner, and walk off in the noisy city, disfigured by the ruins of 
     war. A poster for Gone with the Wind catches SALVATORE's eye. He smiles.
     
     27  CINEMA PARADISO. BOX OFFICE. PROJECTION BOOTH. SQUARE. INT/EXT. EVENING 
     
     Winter has returned. On the screen, a sequence from I pompieri di Viggiu. The 
     theatre is jam full. The sea of heads sways and shakes at the irresistible jokes 
     of Toto. 
     
     Some people have climbed up on the window-sills. The aisles are crammed, an the 
     way down to the screen, where grown-ups and children sit on the floor, their 
     noses in the air. Some people munch crusts of bread they've brought along from 
     home. Almost everybody is smoking. A woman laughs, holding the baby she is 
     nursing. In one corner, at the end of one of the aisles jammed with people 
     standing, a girl laughs, but every now and then her expression reveals a look of 
     deep pleasure. 
     
     Her body moves slightly. Clinging to her from the rear is a man bathed in sweat. 
     
     They are making love standing there among the crowd, which notices nothing and 
     goes on laughing.
     
     In the balcony ANGELO is holding hands with ROSA.
     The curtain over the entrance is open. People are also standing there,
     seeing what they can from the distance, even a corner of the screen
     through the forest of heads. But the line continues on outside...All the
     way to the entrance of the movie house, out in the square. There are
     crowds of people, shivering from the cold, who protest, shove, risk
     provoking incidents. The PRIEST, Father Adelfio, is exhausted, tries to
     calm them down.
     
                    PRIEST  
          Don't shove! There's no room! For 
          heaven's sake! I can't
          give another showing, it's late!
     
                    VOICES IN CROWD  
          Father Adelfio, we've been here for 
          an hour! There are people inside 
          who've seen it twice! ! ! Move on!!
          Ouch!! My foot!!!
     
     It has just stopped raining, the bell-tower rings eleven o'clock. On
     the poster of the film a ' LAST DAY' sticker. The PRIEST, the
     TICKET-SELLER, the USHER and TWO CARABINIERES push the crowd back, close the 
     front door. The protest grows louder. Fists pound the door.
     
                    CROWD  
          Open up!!! Father Adelfio!!
               (The audience in the 
               theatre hears the uproar. 
               Reacts:)
     
                    AUDIENCE  
          Ssssh! Sssssh! Be quiet out there!! 
          What the hell!
               (From the window of the 
               projection booth, ALFREDO 
               and SALVATORE look at the 
               crowd down below, yelling 
               and complaining. Some of 
               the people look up at 
               them. )
     
                    VOICES IN CROWD  
          Alfredooo! We want to get in!...
          Tomorrow you're taking it off!
               (ALFREDO spreads his arms 
               out as if to say there s 
               nothing he can do.)
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Why can't we show the same film 
          tomorrow?
     
                    ALFREDO  
          It's got to be sent to another town. 
          And if we don't the owner of that 
          movie house gets pissed off.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Too bad!
     
     The crowd sways nervously. The CARABINIERES give order.
     
                    CARABINIERES  
               (Exasperated) 
          Stop! Go home, all of you! Otherwise 
          somebody's going to end up in jail!' 
          That's enough!
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Dramatically) 
          'Joe! A mob doesn't think, doesn't 
          know what it's doing...'
               (SALVATORE gives him a 
               curious, inquisitive look. 
               ALFREDO smiles.)
          Spencer Tracy said it in Fury. 
               (Mischievously) 
          What'd you say if we let these poor 
          devils see the film, Toto? 
               (SALVATORE stares at him 
               in amazement, all 
               excited.) 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Wonderful! But how can it be done? 
     
     ALFREDO turns away from the window. He gives a smirk, imitates the tough 
     American movie stars.
     
                    ALFREDO  
          You don't believe my words, but 
          you'll have to believe your own 
          eyes!...And now get your ass off 
          that damn stool, boy! 
     
     SALVATORE laughs, eagerly, as if he were about to see a whole new movie. He 
     climbs off the stool. Both of them move towards the projector...
     
     28  PROJECTION BOOTH AND SQUARE. INT/EXT. EVENING
     
     Trying not to put his hand in front of the lens, ALFREDO removes the
     frame with the glass that protects the projection. He wheels it around
     and motions SALVATORE to look...On the wall behind the projector:
     the film picture appears gradually, reflected by the glass, moves as the
     glass moves all the way over to the window looking out over the square.
     There it disappears. SALVATORE can barely believe his eyes, as if it
     were a piece of magic. He takes a quick look through the hole to see if
     the film is still showing on the screen. It is.
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Mysteriously) 
          Go to the window, boy, and have a 
          look...
     
     SALVATORE goes over to the window. Looks out. The reflected
     beam of light ends up on the white row of houses facing the
     square. It's like another screen. Except the images are
     backwards, like when you look in a mirror. And here and there
     are the windows of the houses...For SALVATORE, it's a
     wonderful spectacle, like a dream, ravishing.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Alfredo, it's beautiful.
               (A voice is heard in the 
               crowd of people jammed 
               around the entrance to the 
               movie house.)
     
                    VOICE IN CROWD  
               (Shouting) 
          Hey, look there!! The movie!!
               (All heeds turn to look at 
               the house behind them.)
     
                    CROWD  
          Oh, praise the Lord!! It's true! 
          Look! The movie!! There's Toto!! 
          Hurry! Hurry!...THANKS, ALFRED0000!!
     
     And everybody runs over to the other side of the square, in front
     of the strange new screen. ALFREDO and SALVATORE watch with glittering eyes. 
     SALVATORE lays his hand on the shoulder of his great pal.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Good for you, Alfredo! 
     
     A close-up of Toto projected on the houses, and one of the windows opens. A MAN 
     appears, in his pajamas. Dazzled by the light, he shades his eyes with his hand. 
     He sees all those people looking at him and laughing together.
     
                    CROWD  
          Shut the window!! Shut the window! Go 
          to bed!! 
     
     The MAN is dazed. Doesn't now what's going on. Looks around, and sees the 
     black-and-white figures of the film dancing around him. He pops back inside, 
     slams the window shut, almost cared.
     
                    VOICES IN CROWD  
               (To ALFREDO) 
          Sound!!! Sound!! Alfredooooo!!
     
                    ALFREDO  
          What do you say, should we make them 
          happy?
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Smiling) 
          Sure, sure! 
     
     ALFREDO takes the loudspeaker of the monitor, rings it over to the window, 
     turns it around towards the square. He turns up he volume and the sound-track 
     fills the square. A chorus of approval.
     
                    CROWD  
          Aaaaaaaa! At last!
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Looking at SALVATORE) 
          Do you want to go down there? 
               (SALVATORE gives a 
               contented nod.) 
          Go on. 
     
     SALVATORE runs on. ALFREDO looks wistfully towards the huge image in the 
     square. Down in the square SALVATORE heads for the crowd, his eyes trained on 
     the house-front screen. Behind him, the door of the movie house opens. The 
     PRIEST, Father Adelfio, sees the film being projected on the house front, 
     the people standing or sitting on the ground, laughing. His eyes nearly pop out 
     of his head. Then he motions over the TICKET-SELLER, whispers something into his 
     ear. The TICKET-SELLER strides over to the shivering spectators, pulls the pad 
     of tickets out of his pocket.
     
                    TICKET-SELLER  
          Ladies and gentlemen! You have to buy 
          tickets! Reduced rate! 
     
     An irresistible chorus of Bronx cheers washes over him. SALVATORE looks around, 
     highly amused.
     
                    CROWD  
          Fuck off!! The square belongs to 
          everybody! 
               (The VILLAGE IDIOT peers 
               Out Of the crowd, all 
               worked up.) 
     
                    VILLAGE IDIOT  
          No!!! The square's mine!!! Come on, 
          kids, no joking around here!!! 
          Otherwise...
     
     The crowd roars with laughter. SALVATORE laughs too, as if carried away by it 
     all. And over the general merriment looms the shadow of ALFREDO, standing in the 
     window of the projection booth. All at once, on the house-front screen, the 
     image of Toto slows down for an instant, a white blister appears and spreads 
     until it fills the whole screen. The crowd gives a start of bewilderment and 
     fear. SALVATORE jerks his head around to look at the booth.
     
     29  PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. DAY 
     
     The film bursts violently into flame among the gears and sprockets of the 
     projector. ALFREDO is taken off-guard. He breaks the film running into the take-
     up reel, but is unable to do it for the delivery reel. He grabs the film which 
     is catching fire and pulls it out quickly, tries to stop the flames from 
     reaching the reel in the f reproof housing. A desperate race against the speed 
     of the fire. The flames on the floor burn his legs. ALFREDO gives a jump, slows 
     down the movement of his hands for an instant and inevitably the flames run 
     ahead, reach the upper housing. It's like an explosion. The flames leap out, 
     striking him full in the face. ALFREDO doesn't have time to scream, struggles 
     desperately and falls to the floor. Meanwhile the flames envelop everything.
     
     30  SQUARE.EXT.EVENING 
     
     The flash of the flames flares up in the windows of the projection booth. 
     SALVATORE is appalled, elbows his way through the moving 
     crowd. Inside the movie house the murmuring of the audience can be heard, 
     growing louder and louder. A scream...
     
     3I:CINEMA PARADISO. INT. EVENING 
     
     A violent spurt of flames leaps out of the mouth of the plaster lion's head, 
     into the darkness broken by the screams of people rushing for the exits.
     
     32  SQUARE AND CINEMA PARADISO ENTRANCE. EXT. EVENING 
     
     The crowd streaks out of the movie house, enveloped in a cloud of black smoke. 
     
                    CROWD  
          Heeeelp! Run for your lives!!! 
     
     In the general panic, SALVATORE tries in vain to get inside, elbows his way 
     towards the street with the stairs leading to the projection booth. The audience 
     clashes against him, knocks him to the ground, almost trampling him underfoot. 
     He is suddenly seized by a superhuman force; gets up, claws his way desperately 
     ahead, with people falling on top of him and to the floor. He finally succeeds, 
     starts up the stairs...
     
     33  CINEMA PARADISO. STAIRS AND PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. EVENING 
     
     The place is filled with smoke. The air is suffocating. SALVATORE streaks up the 
     stairs, gasping for breath. The projection booth is enveloped inflames. 
     ALFREDO's body on the floor, burning. SALVATORE moves quickly, throws a blanket 
     over his shoulders, drags him by the feet over to the stairs, as boxes and other 
     objects fall on him. Using the same blanket, he stamps out the flames that have 
     seared ALFREDO'S clothes. With the force of desperation, he drags him further 
     down the stairs which have been reached by the smoke but not by the flames. 
     ALFREDO doesn't move, his face is burnt. SALVATORE looks at him and only now is 
     panic-stricken, lets out a terrified shriek, like a wounded colt. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Alfredo! Heeeelp! Help!!!
     
     34  CINEMA PARADISO. INT. EVENING 
     
     The plaster lion looks like a dragon spitting fire and smoke. The statue of the 
     Virgin Mary is also in flames. And the movie screen.
     
     35  SQUARE AND CINEMA PARADISO. EXT. EVENING 
     
     The fire has been put out. Nothing remains of the movie house but the skeleton. 
     Everything has gone up in smoke. 
     
     People stand around, dismayed. They gather around the PRIEST, who is at once 
     grieved and shocked, to express their solidarity and comfort. 
     
                    VOICES  
          What a pity! Poor Alfredo! What a 
          terrible thing!! Cheer up, Father, is 
          there something we can do?'
     
                    VILLAGE IDIOT  
               (Laughing) 
          Burnt up...Burnt up. 
     
                    PRIEST  
          What'll we do now! The town will have 
          to get along without movies! Who's 
          got the money to rebuild it? 
     
     CICCIO SPACCAFICO, the man who won the Sisal pools, comes up, dressed in style. 
     He looks up at the charred cinema. It looks like a battlefield after an enemy 
     attack. From the smoke and ashes to...
     
     36  CINEMA PARADISO. EXT. EVENING
     
     ...The great lighted sign of the CINEMA PARADISO . The movie house has been 
     rebuilt. New facade. New billboards. There are people 
     moving about the entrance. It is the evening of the inauguration...
     
     37  CINEMA PARADISO. INT. EVENING 
     
     The lobby is crowded with people, authorities, special guests. There is the 
     MAYOR, FATHER ADELFIO and the new owner, CICCIO SPACCAFICO, dressed to the 
     teeth. The MAYOR cuts the ribbon. Flashbulbs pop. Clapping. 
     
                    GUESTS  
          Cheers' Congratulations, Don Ciccio! 
     
     The procession advances towards the stairs leading into the theatre. FATHER 
     ADELFIO, with a nostalgic sigh, blesses the lobby, then the corridor. Lastly, 
     the new auditorium, which resounds with toasts and cheers.
     
                    AUDIENCE  
          To the Cinema Paradiso! 
     
     The PRIEST sprinkles the new seats, the walls, the screen with holy water...
     
     38  CINEMA PARADISO. PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. EVENING 
     
     Now FATHER ADELFIO is blessing the brand-new projection booth. He also blesses 
     the new projectionist: SALVATORE. He is very nervous, but serious, self-
     possessed. His worried-looking mother is also there for the occasion. The PRIEST 
     turns to SPACCAFICO. 
     
                    PRIEST  
          How'd you solve his being under age? 
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
          I took out a license as 
          projectionist, thanks to friends down 
          at the guild offices. But I don't 
          know a thing about it. Officially, I 
          do the job...
               (Smiling at Salvatore)
          ...but Toto earns the money. 
     
                    PRIEST  
          Fine. 
               (To SALVATORE) 
          Always be careful, my boy. Don't ever 
          go to sleep. Be sure another accident 
          doesn't happen. Do everything poor 
          Alfredo taught you. And may God bless 
          you. 
     
     SALVATORE nods his head seriously, assuming a responsible expression. His 
     mother kisses the PRIEST's hand.
     
                    MARIA  
          Thanks, Father. Thanks. 
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
          And now enough of this gloomy 
          atmosphere. Life goes on! I want to 
          see you happy and smiling!
     
     39  CINEMA PARADISO. INT. EVENING
     
     Laughter. The laughter of the large audience at the first showing of the
     inauguration film. Among the spectators, SALVATORE'S mother, MARIA, and his kid 
     sister, El A. Up on the screen, a man and a woman kiss. The first time a kiss 
     has been seen at the Cinema Paradiso. The audience murmurs, surprised and 
     excited.
     
                    AUDIENCE  
          Ooooooh! They're kissing!! Look at 
          that!! Christ, that's news!!
     
     An OLD LADY sitting next to the MAYOR, crosses herself, flabbergasted. CICCIO 
     SPACCAFICO chuckles. Rubs his hands: these are going to be golden times for him. 
     FATHER ADELFIO gets up and stalks out of the theatre, indignant; he'll
     never set foot in the place again. The love theme gets louder and
     louder...
     
     40  PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. EVENING
     
     The same music spreads through the booth from the monitor. SALVATORE is by 
     himself. He is watching the film through the hole but strangely enough, the 
     story doesn't absorb him. ALFREDO'S absence makes him nervous, he gazes at the 
     stool he used to sit on. Il has been repainted. A voice from the rear of the 
     cabin:
     
                    ANNA'S VOICE  
          Toto?...
     
     SALVATORE turns and at the top of the stairs sees SIGNORA
     ANNA and behind her, ALFREDO, her husband. He is wearing a
     pair of dark glasses and walks with the kelp of a cane. He has
     lost his sight, but not his spirit. He smiles:
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Any room for me in this Cinema 
          Paradiso?
               (SALVATORE runs over and 
               embraces him.)
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Come in, Alfredo.
     
                    ANNA  
               (to SALVATORE) 
          Toto, will you bring him home when 
          you close down?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Yes. Signora Anna. 
               (To ALFREDO) 
          I'm glad you came.
     
                              Cut to:
     
     ALFREDO is now sitting there immobile. He listens to the soundtrack of the film. 
     SALVATORE studies the way he stares into empty space, and the idea of darkness 
     frightens him. There is something new in ALFREDO'S manner, as if having grazed 
     death and the loss of his sight had endowed him with a deeper knowledge of men 
     and life.
     
                    ALFREDO  
          How's school?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          OK. OK. But now that I've got a job, 
          I'11 probably stop going...
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Don't do that...Sooner or later 
          you'll be left empty-handed.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Why? What do you mean?
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Toto, this isn't for you. For the 
          moment, the Cinema Paradiso needs 
          you, and you need the Cinema 
          Paradiso. But it won't last...Some 
          day you'll have other things 
          to do, more important things...
               (He reaches out and 
               touches SALVATORE'S face 
               to 'feel' his expression.)
          That's right, more important. I know 
          it. Now that I've lost my sight I see 
          more. 
          I see everything I didn't see 
          before...
               (As ALFREDO moves his hand 
               from SALVATORE's face, we 
               see that he is now a young 
               man, and that ALFREDO is 
               older, grayer.) 
          And it's all thanks to you, who saved 
          my life. And I'll never forget it...
               (SALVATORE doesn't 
               understand his strange 
               words. ALFREDO can 'feel' 
               he is troubled.)
          And don't put on that look. I haven't 
          gone off my head yet. You want proof?
     
     And he gives a joking smile. SALVATORE is curious, expects one of his fiendish 
     tricks.
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Smiling) 
          Yes. I want proof.
     
                    ALFREDO  
          For example, at this moment the 
          film's out of focus. Go see. 
     
     SALVATORE stands up in disbelief. He looks through the hole, and indeed the film 
     is out of focus. He puts it back into focus, flabbergasted.
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Smiling) 
          It's hard to explain, Toto...
     
     41  CAFE IN THE SQUARE. INT/EXT. MORNING
     
     As the BILL-POSTER attaches to the café door a poster of Catene - the
     coming attraction at the Cinema Paradiso - CICCIO SPACCAFICO is
     speaking on the phone in the phone booth. He is clearly peeved.
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
          Only two days? Are you joking?!...
          What do I care if all the copies 
          are reserved?...Catene for only two 
          days in a place like this! Why, 
          people will eat me alive!...
               (Standing beside him 
               listening is SALVATORE. He 
               is carrying school 
               books under his ann. In 
               the café, several curious 
               ONLOOKERS laugh as through 
               the café window they watch 
               some unemployed PEASANT 
               MEN dancing together at 
               the club. SPACCAFICO 
               listens nervously, then 
               shrieks as if he were 
               about to eat the phone.)
          ...I know, I know. But even if I 
          start showing at eight in the morning 
          it wouldn't be enough! This is a big 
          town now and you people at the 
          Titanus know it perfectly well! I'm 
          your sole agent and if I get pissed 
          off I'll write straight 
          to Lombardo, in Rome!! I'll give you 
          guys a good run-around!! If I get my 
          dander up, I can let fly, if my 
          name's Spaccafico!! 
     
                              Cut to:  
     
     SPACCAFICO AND SALVATORE are now outside the café, head towards the square. In 
     front of the movie house, the CHARWOMAN is at work. SPACCAFICO is so nervous he 
     lights two cigarettes without noticing it. SALVATORE is turning something over 
     in his mind.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Don Ciccio, I've got an idea...You 
          remember that old abandoned movie 
          house where they're supposed to build 
          those low-rent houses?
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
          So what's that got to do with it?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          The projector's all rusty, but I 
          could fix it in two or three days. 
          Give the place a good cleaning, put 
          in some seats and bring in a 
          projectionist and we'll show Catene 
          in two houses.
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
               (Shrieking) 
          What the fuck you talking about? You 
          getting into the act too, Toto? 
          Titanus has trouble giving me even 
          one copy and I have to say thanks! If 
          I ask for two, the least they'll do 
          is cut off my head and play ball with 
          it! 
     
     A shrewd look glitters in SALVATORE s eyes. He smiles.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Who says we need two copies?
     
     42  CINEMA PARADISO. INT. DAY 
     
     The house is jammed with people. Almost bursting at the seams. The last scenes 
     of Catene move across the screen. Tears stream down the faces of the men and 
     women. The children are unusually silent. Even the BLACKSMITH is awake, indeed 
     whispers ahead of time all the lines of Nazzari and Yvonne Sanson, knows them by 
     heart. Among the crowd in the balcony there is ALFREDO and his wife, the MAYOR, 
     DON VINCENZO the landowner, the schoolteachers. Now the music is loud, heart-
     rending. 'THE END' appears on screen. The lights go on. And there is a great 
     din and uproar as one audience leaves and another arrives. The race for empty 
     seats. Quarrels. The CARABINIERES help the USHER maintain order and persuade the 
     people who want to see the film again to get up and leave. 
     
                    USHER  
               (Exasperate]) 
          That's enough now! You've seen it ten 
          times! I need the seats! I wish you'd 
          all get the galloping runs! 
     
                    CARABINIERES  
          Easy! Easy! Through the emergency 
          exits, quick! Stop the jabbering!!
     
     43  CINEMA PARADISO. PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. 
     
     The end of the film slips through the sprockets. SALVATORE switches off the 
     motor. He is particularly fast in taking the reel out of the housing. And even 
     faster in dropping it into the sack BOCCIA is holding open for him. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Now get running and bring me the 
          first reel. Meanwhile I'll start 
          showing the news! 
     
                    BOCCIA  
          OK, Toto!
     
     44  VILLAGE STREETS AND COUNTRYSIDE. EXT. DAY 
     
     BOCCIA speeds like an arrow on his bicycle through the village streets. Tied to 
     the parcel-rack is the sack containing the second part of Catene. He now turns 
     off the main street and takes a short-cut down a country road. He pedals as fast 
     as he can. Until he disappears into the distance, beyond the trees.
     
     45  ENTRANCE OLD ABANDONED MOVIE HOUSE. EXT. DAY 
     
     BOCCIA finally reaches the old movie house, which has been more or less spruced 
     up. Here too people are lined up in front of the posters of Catene. CICCIO 
     SPACCAFICO is waiting impatiently on an outside staircase. He too is holding a 
     sack, containing the first part of the film. The bicycle pulls up in front of 
     him. The sacks are exchanged. 
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
          Quick! Give it to me! Here's the 
          first part. Get moving! 
     
     BOCCIA heads back to the Cinema Paradiso, to take the first part to SALVATORE. 
     SPACCAFICO dashes up the stairs, and hands the sack to a MAN standing in the 
     door, through which the bare projection booth can be seen, and the projector 
     which SALVATORE has put back into working order. SPACCAFICO yells in excitement. 
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
          Here you are! Quick, quick!! People 
          are waiting!
     
     46  OLD ABANDONED MOVIE HOUSE. INT. DAY 
     
     In fact, inside the old freezing cold movie house, the audience is grumbling. 
     Everyone is wrapped in overcoats and woollen scarves and are sitting on chairs 
     they've brought from home and wooden benches. The hum of the projector is heard 
     at last. The lights go down. The grumbling subsides. The words 'PART TWO' appear 
     on screen and then the images of the film.
     
     47  VARIOUS COUNTRY ROADS AND VILLAGE STREETS. EXT. DAY/SUNDOWN
     
     Meanwhile BOCCIA pedals his way swiftly through the countryside on his way to 
     the Cinema Paradiso...
     
                              FADE.
     
     Now BOCCIA is on his way back to the old movie house. To carry out another 
     exchange of sacks containing the reels of film.
     
                              FADE.
     
     Another race back to Cinema Paradiso. BOCCIA starts looking tired, his breath is 
     short. And daylight starts fading into the colours of sundown.
     
                              FADE.
     
     The last fading light of sundown.-BOCCIA is pedalling once more back
     to the old movie house. With the same sack tied to the parcel-rack. He
     is exhausted. On his last legs. He slows down, then stops.
     
     48  CINEMA PARADISO. INT. EVENING
     
     The lights are still on. In the thick blanket of smoke, the crowd stirs
     nervously. Shouting. Whistling.
     
                    AUDIENCE  
          Hey, when's it starting!! We've got 
          ploughing to do in the morning!! 
          Toto, get a move on!! Heeey!!
     
     49  PROJECTION BOOTH. INT/EXT. EVENING
     
     In the booth, the projector is turned off. SALVATORE looks nervously
     out of the window...at the square. But not a sign of BOCCIA. A CARABINIERE 
     peers in through one of the holes.
     
                    CARABINIERE  
          What are we going to do, Toto? The 
          whole place here is up in arms. 
          They've been waiting more than a half 
          hour.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          What can I do?
     
     50  OLD ABANDONED MOVIE HOUSE. INT. EVENING
     
     Here too the audience is up in arms. They're waiting for Part Two tostart. 
     CICCIO SPACCAFICO tears his hair with rage.
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
          Where's the fucking bastard got to?
     
                    SPECTATOR  
          Let's get one thing straight, Don 
          Ciccio! I'm waiting ten minutes 
          more, and if you haven't started...
          you're giving me my money back!!
     
                    AUDIENCE  
               (In chorus) 
          Well said! Well said! We want our 
          money back!!
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
          Easy! Easy! What about my showing you 
          the first part again? Huh? 
     
     People shout, whistle, give Bronx cheers.
     
     
                    AUDIENCE  
          No! First part, my foot! We want to 
          see how the story ends!! 
     
     Down in the front row, PASQUALE, the man who sells black market cigarettes, 
     stands up.
     
                    PASQUALE  
          I've seen the whole works! You want 
          me to tell you how it ends? 
     
     A shoe comes flying at him.
     
                    AUDIENCE  
          Nooo! No! Shut up, you jerk!!
     
     5I  VILLAGE STREETS AND COUNTRY ROADS. EXT. EVENING
     
     SALVATORE has got himself a bicycle and is going off to look for
     BOCCIA. He pedals fast, turns into the country short cut. Looks
     around  not a sign of Boccia. By now it is dark. He sees a MAN in the window of 
     a farmhouse, calls out to him. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Boccia! Boccia! 
     
     SALVATORE rides on. Now he's in the open country. All of a sudden he seems to 
     hear something. He stops. Pricks up his ears. It's a sort of moan - he can't 
     figure out if it's an animal or a man. He turns on the flashlight he has brought 
     along. Takes a closer look around. 
     
     Catches sight of a bicycle wheel on the ground behind a bush. That's where the 
     moan is coming from! He creeps over in alarm. Next to the bicycle he now catches 
     sight of the sack with the film. And the moaning gets louder. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Alarmed) 
          Boccia, what's wrong? 
               (He runs over to help his 
               friend. Behind the bush he 
               discovers BOCCIA humped up 
               between the legs of 
               TERESA, a prostitute. He 
               moves with all the fury 
               of his young years. 
               SALVATORE has never seen 
               people making love before 
               and is speechless.)
          Damn you, what are you doing? 
     
                    BOCCIA  
               (Shouting) 
          Oh, Christ, it's so good!!! 
               (And he goes on ramming it 
               home.) 
     
                    TERESA  
          Hey, cut it out! Go away. Shoo! 
     
     With a confused look on his face, SALVATORE picks up the sack and walks away, 
     looking over his shoulder at the couple who go on tossing around more and more 
     frantically.
     
     BOCCIA lets out a shriek of pleasure that rings through the countryside, as 
     SALVATORE pedals off like a madman and disappears into the trees. 
     
     52  CINEMA PARADISO. INT. DAY/EVENING 
     
     Music and the naked body of Brigitte Bardot. A row of youngsters on the main 
     floor stare at the naked actress, all excited. A regular rhythmic tremor runs 
     through them, half-hidden by the back of the seats.
     
     A scene from a horror film. The frightened faces of the audience. Off in one 
     corner, the door of the men's toilet opens and a MAN with a contented look comes 
     out, followed by TERESA, who motions another one to come in. In the projection 
     booth, SALVATORE is eating the meal his mother has brought him.
     
     A gangster film. The tense faces of the audience. A gun battle. Rounds of 
     machine-gunfire in the night. The shots echo through the theatre. A LITTLE BOY 
     claps his hands over his ears. Alternating with the machine-gunfire on screen, a 
     real pistol shoots the back of one of the spectators, the landowner DON 
     VINCENZO, who slumps down in his seat without anybody noticing...The shooting 
     continues up on screen...
     
     SALVATORE'S hand holds a lighted match under a piece of film, before the 
     horrified eyes of SPACCAFICO and the USHER, and the puzzled expression of 
     ALFREDO. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          What'd I tell you? It doesn't catch 
          fire! 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Progress! It always arrives too late!
     
     A scene from Seven Brides for Seven Brothers. The only empty seat
     in the theatre is the one where DON VINCENZO was killed. A flower
     has been tied to it with string. All the other seats are taken.
     
                              Fade to:
     
     ROSA and ANGELO are sitting next to each other. They are watching a
     different film. But she has a baby in her arms  they have got married,
     have set up a family.
     
     In the balcony, the MAN with the face of a public notary spits down
     below with a contented look. But this time the main floor takes its
     revenge and a blob of shit hits him square in the face.
     
     53  CINEMA PARADISO. INT. MORNING 
     
     In the morning the theatre is empty. All the doors are shut. Light filters in 
     through the open windows up above, illuminates the posters of coming attractions 
     and the yellowish screen. Off-screen, a woman's voice 
     and a boy's voice are heard. 
     
                    TERESA'S VOICE  
               (Off-screen) 
          Come on...That's right...relax...
               (Laughing)
          ...Don't be scared...
     
                    SALVATORE'S VOICE  
               (Off-screen) 
          Is it true that if I bleed I've got 
          to squeeze lemon juice on it? 
     
                    TERESA'S VOICE  (Off-screen) 
               (A loud laugh) 
          Lemon juice?...That's a new one for 
          you! Who tells you this crap...Take 
          it easy...That's right...You see, 
          it's not painful, is it?
     
     Slow pan along the walls of the theatre, the empty aisles,
     discovers SALVATORE on the floor between the seats with
     TERESA, the prostitute who has already been seen. SALVATORE is
     making love for the first time in his life. He is awkward and
     clumsy. There is an uncertain look in his eyes, his livid face is
     dripping with sweat.
     
                    TERESA 
          ...There you are! That's right, 
          that's right! Keep going...
               (SALVATORE is quicker, has 
               learned the lesson. TERESA 
               goads him on.)
          Ah!!! There, now you're a real man! A 
          man! ? A real calf!
               (SALVATORE's panting 
               slackens into a deep sigh 
               of pleasure.)
     
     54  VARIOUS SETTINGS. INT/EXT. DAY 
     
     The blade of a knife, clutched in a hardened hand. A blow. A cry of pain. A calf 
     falls like a dead weight to the ground...SALVATORE photographs the animal in 
     the throes of death with his 8mm movie camera. As well as the faces of the MEN 
     who now bleed and skin it quickly. In the vast slaughter-house, the voices of 
     the men and animals mingle together.
     
     SALVATORE'S eye is quick to catch the most unexpected expressions of ordinary 
     people. His movie camera is always ready, like a hunter's rifle. Now he is 
     shooting...
     
     A meeting in the square: the passionate reactions of the peasants listening to a 
     speaker who flails his arms around.
     
     At school: the old SCHOOLMISTRESS sitting at her desk, sunk in God knows what 
     dreams, her eyes staring off into empty space, as a tear runs down her pale, 
     unhappy face, and the unknowing STUDENTS carry out their assignments.
     
     At the railroad station: the nervous excitement of the people waiting on the 
     platforms. SALVATORE pans his camera on to TWO MEN fighting. But an arriving 
     train comes in between. Salvatore follows the train, pans along the cars. The 
     train stops. 
     
     -A door opens and the passengers climb out. Several TRADERS, a CARABINTERE, a 
     group of commuting STUDENTS, the TICKET-COLLECTOR, a distinguished looking 
     COUPLE and lastly, a GIRL who stops in the middle of the viewfinder. SALVATORE 
     is immediately attracted by her face. He goes on shooting without leaving it a 
     moment. He follows her through the lens. She is very beautiful, must be around 
     sixteen, a simple, sweet face, blue eyes. She is certainly the daughter of the 
     distinguished looking COUPLE who got off just before she did. The little family 
     moves off down the platform. Salvatore follows the girl's movements, as if 
     hypnotized. Now she passes by him, turns towards him for one moment, as if 
     trying to figure out where he is aiming that funny-looking gadget. SALVATORE 
     smiles at her, entranced.
     
     55  HIGH SCHOOL. COURTYARD. ENTRANCE. EXT. MORNING
     
     The JANITOR is ringing the bell. In the courtyard, on the other side of
     the gate, the STUDENTS prepare to enter. SALVATORE is with a group
     of schoolmates, including BOCCIA. And they all stare, wide-eyed, at
     the GIRL from the station. She has her books under her arm and is
     walking by herself.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          You know that one there?
     
                    BOCCIA  
          She's new. Not bad though. Nice-
          looking.
               (SALVATORE has the look of 
               somebody seeking for an 
               idea, some way of picking 
               up a conversation with 
               her.)
     
                    SECOND STUDENT  
          Her father s the new bank director. 
          Loaded, luxury and easy living!
     
                    FIRST STUDENT  
          People who jerk off with a shirt so 
          they won't get their hands dirty. 
               (Laughs.)
     
     All at once, BOCCIA and SALVATORE notice that the GIRL drops
     her lunch without noticing as she is about to enter the school. They
     fly off, swift as arrows. It's a chance not to be missed. BOCCIA is
     the quicker, is already in the lead. SALVATORE gives an angry
     gesture. A flash come into his eyes, the same flash he had as a little
     boy when he finds the right way to hit home. He picks up his step,
     trips BOCCIA and brings him to the ground. He pounces on him
     and lets go with his fist. He starts running again. Picks the
     bundle off the ground. Catches up with the GIRL from the
     station, nervous and inexperienced, but polite.
                    SALVATORE  
          Look, you dropped this.
     
     And he hands her her lunch with a smile. She recognizes him.
     
                    ELENA  
          Oh, thanks. I hadn't noticed...
     
     She takes the bundle as SALVATORE touches her hand delicately.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          My name's Salvatore...And yours?
     
                    ELENA  
               (Smiling) 
          Elena. My name's Elena.
     
     SALVATORE is very flustered. He feels as if all his blood were
     throbbing in his head. He tries to say something else, but the words
     catch in his throat.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          I...I...The other time at the 
          station.
     
     BOCCIA suddenly grabs him by the collar and yanks him away. ELENA is frightened, 
     puts her hand over her eyes so as not to see.
     
     56:CINEMA PARADISO.PROJECTION BOOTH.INT.AFTERNOON 
     
     SALVATORE has a black eye, swollen shut. He is setting up a little 8mm projector 
     on a stool. ALFREDO is sitting in one corner. He has come to keep him company. 
     He listens to the sound-track of the movie being shown. 
     
                    ALFREDO
          Chaplin's Modern Times! Right, Toto? 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          That's right, Modern Times. 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          I've shown it so many times I know it 
          by heart. The first time I showed 
          it, in 1940, was the Sunday my first 
          wife died. They kept it hidden from 
          me all day so they wouldn't have to 
          close down the movie house. I only 
          found out that night, after the last 
          show. Those are things you never 
          forget...
               (Changing his tone.) 
          So, Toto, how are these home movies 
          going? 
               (SALVATORE has switched on 
               the little projector and a 
               square of light appears on 
               the wall beside ALFREDO, 
               with the scenes shot in 
               town.) 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Yes. 
               (The shots of the 
               slaughter-house have 
               appeared.) 
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Whispering) 
          What is it, what is it? What's the 
          picture? 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          It's people in the slaughter-house 
          killing a calf. There's blood all 
          over the floor, like a lake. And 
          through this lake another calf passes 
          by on its way to die. 
     
     ALFREDO is concentrated, as if SALVATORE'S description transmitted the 
     real image to him, the colours, the forms. The railway station has appeared on 
     the wall, and the sequence of ELENA. SALVATORE does not move, does not say a 
     word, as he gazes at those blue eyes looking into the camera. ALFREDO senses 
     something funny in the boy's s11ence.
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Now what can you see?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Nothing, there's nothing. It's all 
          out of focus.
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Smiling) 
          Is there a woman?...Tell me the 
          truth...
               (SALVATORE is shamed, 
               uncertain, doesn't know 
               whet to say. A tender look 
               filters through ALFREDO's 
               dark glasses. He has 
               obviously caught on and 
               whispers:) 
          There is a woman.
     
     SALVATORE is forced to admit it, with a sigh.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Yes, it's a girl I saw at the 
          station.
     
                    ALFREDO  
          What's she like? What's she like?...
     
     And as other shots of ELENA appear on the screen, SALVATORE describes her. As 
     only somebody in love could.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          She's nice. My age...Slender, with 
          long hair, brunette. She had big blue 
          eyes, a simple expression and a 
          little beauty mark on her lip, but 
          really tiny. You can only see it 
          close-up. And when she smiles...She 
          makes you feel...
     
     He stops. Only now does he realize that he has let himself be carried away by 
     passion, by the desire to talk about her. ALFREDO smiles, spellbound...
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Eh! Love...what a mystery!
               (SALVATORE turns off the 
               projector and heaves a 
               deep sigh, almost of 
               liberation. ALFREDO'S 
               sympathy does him a lot of 
               good. It's nice to be 
               understood. He moves over 
               closer to him. ALFREDO 
               runs his hand through his 
               hair, whispers:)
          I understand you, Toto...The ones 
          with blue eyes are the
          most beautiful. Whatever you do, you 
          can't make friends with
          them.
               (SALVATORE is comforted by 
               the way he talks. He 
               didn't think it
               was possible to put into 
               words the things he has 
               felt since meeting
               ELENA. He nods his head. 
               ALFREDO sighs.)
          Eh, there's nothing to be done about 
          it! The heavier a man is,
          the deeper his footprints. And if 
          he's in love, he suffers,
          because he knows he's up a one-way 
          street. Because love is a
          meaningless thing when a man gets it 
          into his head to do what
          he wants...
               (SALVATORE is touched by 
               his sensitivity, by his 
               intense, passionate, sweet 
               way of speaking.)
     
                    SALVATORE  
          What you say is wonderful! But sad...
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Smiling) 
          They're not my words. John Wayne said 
          it in Shepherd of the Hills.
     
     SALVATORE suddenly changes expression, as if discovering he was being made fun 
     of.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Stinking two-timer!! 
               (And they burst out 
               laughing.)
     
     57:CINEMAPARADISOANDVARIOUSSTREETS.EXT.DAY
     
     A grey, windy day. It is opening-time and the shutters of the movie
     house are being rolled up. SALVATORE is about to enter through the
     small door of the spiral staircase, when in the distance he catches sight
     of...
     
     ELENA crossing a street with her books under her arm. She is alone.
     SALVATORE doesn't stop to think twice, dashes off, runs through streets
     full of dust, another square, turns the corner, but has lost sight of her.
     He looks around in all directions  there she is! He starts running again.
     And finally catches up with her, all out of breath, practically
     speechless with emotion.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Hi, Elena!
     
                    ELENA  
          Hi. Why are you running?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          No particular reason...
               (He is entranced by her 
               eyes. He wants to tell her 
               all sorts of
               things, say all the words 
               he has memorized a 
               thousand times. But
               now he can't get them out. 
               His knees tremble. He does 
               his best to
               overcome his confusion, 
               but all that comes out 
               is:)
          Nice day, huh?
               (A gust of wind envelops 
               them in a cloud of dust 
               and a clap of
               thunder rends the air. 
               ELENA laughs, amused by 
               the blunder.)
     
                    ELENA  
          Yes, nice day.
               (SALVATORE laughs too. He 
               gazes at her long hair 
               tossed by the wind. She 
               turns to leave.)
          ...I've got to go now. Bye-bye.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Bye-bye, Elena.
               (ELENA walks away. And 
               SALVATORE also turns to 
               leave. Only now is he 
               seized by disappointment,  
               regret at not having made
               the best of the 
               opportunity. He talks to 
               himself.)
          ...What an idiot! What an idiot! 
          'Nice day'! Christ!!
     
     58:SALVATORE'S BEDROOM.INT.DAY 
     
     SALVATORE projects images of ELENA on his wall. He lies across his bed gazing at 
     her image.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          You probably don't believe me, but 
          I'm going to become the leading man 
          in your life. Sure, I don't look like 
          Marlon Brando, but look at me, really 
          look at me. Am I really so ugly? So 
          should I try once more? Maybe It'll 
          succeed. What do you 
          say? 
     
     ELENA seems to be saying, Yes. As SALVATORE kisses ELENA, her image disappears. 
     He is left with his face against the wall in the white light from the 
     projector.
     
     59:PHONEB00TH AND ELENA'S HOUSE.INT.DAY
     
     SALVATORE is in a phone booth. The telephone will certainly help him feel less 
     nervous.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Hello, can I speak to Elena, please?
     
                    WOMANS VOICE  
          Yes. 
               (SALVATORE recognizes 
               ELENA's voice, changes his 
               tone, turns sweeter, more 
               personal.)
     
                    SALVATORE 
          Is that you, Elena?
     
                    WOMAN'S VOICE  
          Yes...
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't recognize 
          your voice. This is Salvatore, 
          remember?
     
                    WOMAN'SVOICE  
          Yes...
     
     SALVATORE finally speaks, says everything all in one breath, without stopping, 
     without hesitating, in order to leave no room for shyness.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Listen, I know that every time we see 
          each other I make a fool of myself, 
          but I'm not like that, I swear. It's 
          just that when I see you, I feel shy, 
          the right words don't come to me, I 
          don't have the courage to say that 
          all I do is think about you...
               (He has finally got it 
               out. He's dripping with 
               sweat, but happy at having 
               succeeded. He continues.) 
          That's right, Elena, you're the last 
          thing I think of when I go to sleep 
          and the first when I wake up in the 
          morning. And at night I always dream 
          of you. I know, it's not good on the 
          phone. But please, don't get me 
          wrong. Because I love you very 
          much...
     
                    WOMAN'SVOICE  
               (Interrupting him) 
          If you don't stop phoning her, I'm 
          calling the police!
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Stunned) 
          But excuse me, who's speaking?
     
     At ELENA'S house, a WOMAN who is visibly in a state is speaking on the phone.
     
                    ELENA'S MOTHER  
          I'm Elena's mother, you filthy pig! 
     
     SALVATORE feels like dropping through the floor, tries to get a word in to 
     explain, to apologize, but the flood of insults overwhelms him.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          I'm sorry, Signora, maybe there's a 
          misunderstanding...I...
     
                    WOMAN'S VOICE  
          And don't call my daughter any more. 
          Never! 
     
     SALVATORE has no choice but to hang up, disappointed, defeated. He's so mad he 
     starts slapping himself.
     
     60:ALFREDO'S HOUSE.EXT.AFTERNOON
     
     Good Friday. ALFREDO comes out of his house, leaning on
     SALVATORE's shoulder. They go off down the street, towards the
     church. SALVATORE has finished recounting his misadventure.
     
                    ALFREDO  
          I told you, the blue-eyed ones are 
          the most difficult.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          But why? There must be some way to 
          make her understand!
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Don't think about it, Toto. Don't 
          even try. With feelings, there's 
          nothing to understand. 
     
     SALVATORE gives an angry gesture. This time ALFREDO'S words do not quiet his 
     frenzy, don't help him. He moves away from him a few steps.
     
     ALFREDO stands there motionless in the middle of the road.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Stop it! I've had enough of your 
          sermons! You act as if you created 
          the world! 
               (A bicycle streaks by 
               ALFREDO, who gives a 
               startled jump, as if it 
               were about to 
               run into him. He raises 
               his voice, panic-
               stricken.)
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Heeey! Totooooo! Don't get pissed off 
          with me now! Come here! I don't 
          know where the fuck I have to go. 
               (A MAN on a bicycle almost 
               collides with ALFREDO. 
               SALVATORE fumes, goes over 
               to him listlessly. ALFREDO 
               puts his hand back on his 
               shoulder and they start 
               walking again. ALFREDO has 
               calmed down, but his voice 
               is determined.) 
          And the next time be careful how you 
          talk. Not to take credit away 
          from the Lord, but if I had created 
          the world, in all modesty, certain 
          things would have come out better. 
          But unfortunately such was not the 
          case.
     
                    SALVATORE 
               (Laughing) 
          You see, it s like I say. You always 
          have an answer for everything.
     
                    ALFREDO  
          I want to make you happy, Toto! I'm 
          going to tell you a story. 
               (And he squeezes 
               SALVATORE'S shoulder. It's 
               the signal for taking a 
               rest. They sit in a 
               doorway. ALFREDO starts 
               telling his story, and his 
               way of speaking is 
               hypnotic, magical. With 
               those eyes lost in empty 
               space, it's as if his 
               thoughts and his words 
               came in from some other 
               dimension, mysterious, 
               hidden...) 
          Once upon a time a king gave a feast 
          and there were all the most beautiful 
          princesses of the realm. Basta, one 
          of the guards, saw the king's 
          daughter: she was the loveliest of 
          all! And he immediately fell in love 
          with her. But what could a poor 
          soldier do compared with a king's 
          daughter?!...One day he managed 
          to meet her and told her he couldn't 
          live without her. The princess was so 
          struck by the depth of his feeling 
          that she said to the soldier  'If you 
          will wait a hundred days and a 
          hundred nights beneath my balcony, 
          then in the end I'll be yours.' 
          Christ, the soldier ran off there and 
          waited! One day, two days, 
          ten, twenty...Every night she looked 
          out of her window, but he never 
          budged. Come rain, wind, snow, never 
          budged! The birds shat on him and the 
          bees ate him alive! After ninety 
          nights he was gaunt and pale and 
          tears streamed from his eyes but he 
          couldn't hold them back. He didn't 
          even have the strength to sleep any 
          more. The princess kept watch...And 
          on the ninety-ninth night, the 
          soldier got up, picked up his chair 
          and left!
     
                    SALVATORE  
          No! You mean right at the end? 
               (SALVATORE is amazed, 
               dumbfounded; that ending 
               has made a deep 
               impression. They 
               start walking again.)
                    ALFREDO  
          That's right, Toto, right at the end? 
          And don't ask me what it means. If 
          you figure it out, let me know...
     
                    SALVATORE  
          I'll be damned'
     
     6I:CHURCH.INT.EVENING
     
     Before the high altar, the Virgin Mary in tears clutches three spikes inher 
     hand. And beside her is another statue  Christ descended from the
     cross. MEN and WOMEN stand in line to kiss Christ's wounds. Many people are 
     sitting between the pews. SALVATORE helps ALFREDO take a seat, and at that 
     moment catches sight at the far end of ELENA on her way to the confessional. 
     
     She kneels down on one side, just as FATHER ADELFIO comes out of the middle 
     booth and goes to the altar to say something to the sacristan. SALVATORE'S eyes 
     light up. He has had a brainstorm. 
     
     He leans over and whispers something into ALFREDO's ear. ALFREDO nods his head. 
     SALVATORE is so happy that he gives him a pat on the cheek, like a caress. Then 
     he hurries over to the PRIEST. Says something in a low voice, gesticulates with 
     some agitation, points to the pew where ALFREDO is sitting. The PRIEST tries to 
     say he can't now, but SALVATORE insists, and wins. The PRIEST goes over to 
     ALFREDO, leans over. 
     
                    PRIEST  
          What is it, Alfredo? Right now, of 
          all times! 
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (In a grave voice) 
          Father Adelfio, I have a very serious 
          doubt that is torturing my soul. And 
          you've got to help me, because I've 
          lost all peace of mind...
     
     SALVATORE watches from a distance. He sees the PRIEST put on an alarmed 
     expression and then sit down beside ALFREDO. Everything's ready. He creeps over 
     to the confessional. ELENA is there, kneeling down waiting for the PRIEST to 
     arrive. In an instant, without anyone noticing, SALVATORE pops inside the 
     confessional. He shuts the little door below and draws the purple curtain. On 
     the other side of grille, only a few inches away, those eyes that keep him awake 
     all night. 
     
                    ELENA  
          Father, I have sinned...
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (In a low voice) 
          We'll talk about that later. 
     
                    ELENA  
               (Surprised) 
          But...who...
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Interrupting her) 
          Sssssh, Be quiet, pretend 
          everything's normal. I'm Salvatore. 
     
     ELENA'S eyes pop in amazement.
     
                    ELENA  
          What are you doing here?
     
     Meanwhile ALFREDO and the PRIEST continue their unusual and animated discussion. 
     The PRIEST is appalled, crosses himself. 
     
                    PRIEST  
          But Alfredo, what you're saying is 
          horrifying! 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          I know. But take the-miracle of the 
          loaves and fishes, for example! I 
          think about it a lot...How is it 
          possible for...
     
     In the confessional, the whispered conversation between SALVATORE and ELENA 
     continues.
     
                    ELENA  
               (Annoyed) 
          There was a terrible rumpus at home. 
          My mother told my father. And how 
          could you have mistaken my voice?!
     
     SALVATORE is mortified, on tenterhooks, keeps an eye on ALFREDO and the PRIEST 
     through a crack in the curtain.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Forgive me, Elena. It was stupid of 
          me. But I had to talk to you. 
     
     She looks up at him and her eyes are even more beautiful in the candlelight. 
     This time SALVATORE finds the courage to speak to her calmly, with 
     determination. That grille probably helps him, allows him to see without being 
     seen.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          You're so beautiful, Elena...That's 
          what I wanted to tell you. When I 
          meet you, I can't put two words 
          together because...you give me the 
          shivers. I don't know what you do in 
          these situations, what you're 
          supposed to say. It's the first time. 
          But I think I'm in love with you. 
     
     ELENA gazes through the grille at the two shining specks of his eyes. She is 
     bewildered by that flood of passion. At that moment, an OLD WOMAN kneels down on 
     the other side of the confessional and her face appears behind the grille.
     
                    OLD WOMAN  
          Father, I have sinned...
               (SALVATORE turns lo her, 
               instinctively.)
     
                    SALVATORE  
          I absolve you in the name of the 
          Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. 
          Go in peace, my daughter. 
               (And he slams the panel 
               shut in her face. ELENA is 
               barely able to control her 
               laughter.) 
          When you laugh, you're even more 
          beautiful. 
     
     She pulls herself together again and puts on a serious, but tender look.
     
                    ELENA  
          Salvatore, it's awfully sweet of you. 
          And even though I don't know you, I 
          like you. But...I'm not in love with 
          you. 
     
     For SALVATORE, it's as if a knife had plunged straight into his heart. He sits 
     there gazing into her eyes, at the beauty mark on her lip, without moving. Then 
     through the crack sees ALFREDO and the PRIEST conversing nervously, God knows 
     what they're saying. And he turns back to her.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          I don't care. I'll wait.
     
                    ELENA  
          For what?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          For you to fall in love with me too. 
          Listen carefully. Every night, when I 
          get off work, I'll come and wait 
          beneath your window. Every night. 
          When you change your mind, open your 
          window. That's all. I'll 
          understand...
     
     He smiles at her. She is upset by those exaggerated words, but also intrigued.
     
     The PRIEST has meanwhile solved the problem that ALFREDO has made up as an 
     excuse.
     
                    PRIEST  
               (Exhausted) 
          You understand now? You see it 
          clearly?
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Hypocritically) 
          Oh yes, father. Now everything's 
          clear.
     
                    PRIEST  
          And the next time don't go around 
          saying such heresy. You survived the 
          fire at the movie house. But no one 
          can save you from the fire of Hell!
     
     62:SQUARE AND ELENA'S HOUSE. EXT. NIGHT
     
     Sweet poignant music accompanies SALVATORE's long waits beneath the window of 
     ELENA'S room... A warm early summer night. The last spectators wander off into 
     the streets. The VILLAGE IDIOT makes his rounds of the square.
     
     SALVATORE is beneath her window. He waits. The shutters are open,
     but not the windows with the curtains. ELENA peers at him through a
     dark crack...
     
                              Fade to:
     
     A rainy night. SALVATORE is back there again. Determined,
     headstrong. A dog keeps him company, taking shelter under an
     overhanging roof. The window is shut...
     
                              Fade to:
     
     SALVATORE'S hand adds another check to an endless row of checks on
     the calendar. A check a day...
     
                              Fade to:
     
     Another night. Wind. The window is still shut. SALVATORE's eyes are
     the eyes of a lovesick man prepared to face the hardest battles, just to
     win, just to conquer his loved one. She peeks at him through the crack,
     but he can't see her...
     
                              Fade to:
     
     The paces of the calendar are covered with checks. Several months
     have gone by. SALVATORE adds a check on the last page, on 30 December. Tomorrow 
     night will be...New Year's Eve. The streets are empty. Loud merry voices can be 
     heard coming from the houses. Old discarded objects hail down from balconies. 
     Firecrackers explode here and there. SALVATORE is there in the same old place, 
     as usual. The shutters are open, but not the windows, and all is darkness 
     inside. SALVATORE is wrapped in a large overcoat and stamps his feet to keep 
     warm...
     
     63:SALVATORES HOUSE. GIANCALDO. INT. NIGHT
     
     Toasts are being prepared in SALVATORE's house. MARIA is there
     with her daughter, LIA, then ALFREDO with his wife, ANNA.
     SALVATORE is the only one missing for the "family" to be complete.
     The bottle of spumante and the Christmas cake are ready. The radio is
     on with the New Year's Eve programme.
     
                    MARIA  
               (Nervously) 
          But why hasn't Toto shown up? The 
          movie house is closed at this hour!
     
     ALFREDO has a know-all look. He tries to put her mind at rest.
     
                    ALFREDO  
          He had to do something for me...
     
     Over the radio, music and merrymaking
     
     64:ELENA'S HOUSE.EXT.NIGHT 
     
     More sounds of merrymaking, coming from ELENA's house. SALVATORE listens to it, 
     sees the shadows of her parents and relatives, maybe even hers, ready to 
     celebrate, welcome in the New Year. But further on, that window remains dark and 
     shut. SALVATORE gazes at it again. 
     
     There is a new look in his eyes, like a gleam of hope. Maybe it's the 
     specialness of that night, maybe it's the fire crackers, the festive atmosphere, 
     but something tells him that's going to be the right night. The night when 
     she'll open her window. In fact, a light suddenly goes on in the room. 
     SALVATORE'S eyes sparkle, have already taken on the hue of victory. 
     
     The window is pulled open, and his heart starts pounding like a drum. The music 
     reaches its climax. Two hands come out. SALVATORE shuts his eyes for a moment, 
     to hold back the flood of feeling. He opens them again and sees......The hands 
     reach out and take hold of the shutters and pull them shut. The light goes out. 
     It is midnight. An echoing voice does the countdown.
     
                    RADIO VOICE  
          Six, five, four, three, two, one, 
          zero! Happy New Year! Happy New Year! 
     
     And a roar of voices, shouts, explosions, fills the air. SALVATORE has remained 
     standing there immobile, speechless. Disappointed. Defeated.
     
     65  SALVATORE S HOUSE. GIANCALDO. INT. NIGHT
     
     At his house, glasses are about to be raised. There is a strange, tense 
     merriment. MARIA is unable to conceal her concern, her presentiment. She glances 
     at the door, hoping to see SALVATORE appear.
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (To Maria) 
          There's nothing to worry about. He's 
          probably with his friends. 
               (To all) 
          Let's toast!
     
                    EVERYBODY  
               (Toasting) 
          Here's to you! Here's to you! Happy 
          New Year!
     
                    MARIA  
          For Toto too, here's to you!! Happy 
          New Year! !
     
     Everybody echoes MARIA'S toast...
     
     66  ELENA S HOUSE. EXT. NIGHT 
     
     But SALVATORE is not happy in these first few minutes of the New Year. He feels 
     hurt, humiliated, rejected. He walks off amidst the old discarded objects flying 
     down from the terraces. That was his last night. He's not showing up beneath 
     that balcony any more.
     
     67  CINEMA PARADISO. PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. AFTERNOON 
     
     Outside there is a violent thunderstorm. The pounding of the rain and the 
     rumbling of the thunder drown out the sound-track of the film being shown. Two 
     buckets are on the floor to catch the water dripping through the roof. SALVATORE 
     is alone. For the first time he feels he hates the profession he's got into. He 
     is tearing up the calendar where he checked off the nights he spent waiting for 
     ELENA. He tears it into a thousand pieces, as if trying to wipe out the traces 
     of his grief. He is so absorbed in his thoughts that he doesn't notice that 
     someone has appeared at the top of the stairs and quietly entered the room. And 
     now stands there watching him in silence. The thunder is deafening. That someone 
     is ELENA. She comes up behind him, realizes he is thinking 
     about her. Whispers. 
     
                    ELENA  
          Salvatore...
     
     Loud passionate music is heard on the monitor. SALVATORE turns and sees her as 
     if in a dream. It is a sudden blow to the heart. The look on her face is 
     wonderfully sweet, the look of somebody who knows she is madly loved and 
     who now realizes at last that she is in love too. For SALVATORE it is an 
     overwhelming, almost unbearable moment...A long passionate embrace that is 
     never-ending. They are happy, cling to each other never to leave each other 
     again. 
     
     They spin around, end up against the wall where strips of film are hanging, the 
     first-part endings and the trailers. Another intense look, their eyes 
     locked...And it is their first kiss. A kiss at first timid, hesitant, almost 
     clumsy, and then becomes resolute, poignant. Amidst the film strips dangling 
     around and touching their young faces. Meanwhile the film has finished, the 
     projector turns uselessly...Down below the screen is blank, the audience 
     whistles...But SALVATORE hears nothing, neither the whistles nor the useless 
     whirring of the reels in the projector. All he hears is her breathing, an he 
     feels is the warmth of her 
     skin.
     
     68  VARIOUS SETTINGS. INT/EXT. DAY
     
     The happiest, most vivid moments SALVATORE and ELENA spend
     together:
     
     A country outing. They eat a lavish salad using the flat branches of the
     prickly pear for plates.
     
     A chase through an endless field of wheat.
     In the projection booth. A cake with seventeen lighted candles.
     SALVATORE and ELENA blow them out together. And then a kiss.
     
     69  ROAD AT THE EDGE OF TOWN.EXT. DAY
     
     SALVATORE is driving an old beaten-up Balilla he bought from a
     car-wrecker. ELENA sits beside him, having the time of her life. They
     roar with laughter. The car jolts, moves by fits and starts, jarred by the
     holes in the road, and besides SALVATORE is not such a hot driver. She
     fondles him.
     
                    ELENA  
               (Ironically) 
          You have a great future as a driver. 
          If they don't arrest you first!!
     
                    SALVATORE  
          That's nothing to do with it, it's 
          the car that's still being run in...
     
     He has barely finished the last sentence when the car gives a
     sudden violent shudder. A sharp report. A cloud of white smoke issues from the 
     motor. And the Balilla stops dead in its tracks. ELENA and SALVATORE cannot 
     smother their wild laughter. They embrace. 
     
                    ELENA  
          SO now how do we get home? 
     
                              Cut to:  
     
     The two of them are standing beside the empty road, looking bored, as they have 
     already been waiting a long time for someone to go by, a car, a wagon. When all 
     at once a car comes around the bend, heading for town. SALVATORE and ELENA flag 
     it down. 
     
     The DRIVER slows down. The back door opens, a MAN gets out. An alarmed and 
     startled look comes over ELENA's face  that man is her FATHER. She sees him 
     stride over in a rage. 
     
     He has almost reached SALVATORE, who tries lo be polite, to make the best of the 
     situation. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Hello, Dr Mendola...Hem...
     
     ELENA buries her face in her hands, so as not to see...
     
     70  CINEMA PARADISO. INT. EVENING
     
     SALVATORE has a bruise on his cheek and two Band-aids on his face.
     He got himself a good thrashing, and then some. The house is jammed,
     as on the great occasions. Curiosity is written all over the faces of the
     audience. But what they're seeing is not a film, but an instalment of
     Double or Nothing. SALVATORE is standing by a teleprojector which
     has been set up in the central aisle of the balcony. It is a machine that
     makes it possible to project television show on the screen. ALFREDO is
     sitting beside him.
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (In a low voice) 
          Toto, are you pulling my leg or 
          something? How is it possible to see 
          this television without film?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Just so, Alfredo. There isn't any. 
          And if you buy a television set, you 
          can watch it at home, without any 
          fuss...
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Sceptically) 
          Could be...But I don't like this
          business. It smells fishy to me.
     
     ELENA is sitting in one corner of the balcony with her parents. Sitting beside 
     her FATHER is the owner of the movie house, SPACCAFICO, who thanks him.
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
               (In a low voice) 
          You see what a bright idea, Dr 
          Mendola? But without the bank loan 
          how could I have bought the machine? 
          If we don't get organized around 
          here, in this day and age, we'll meet 
          the same end as the Punch and Judy 
          shows! 
     
     ELENA is not very interested in the TV show. She sneaks a look at SALVATORE. 
     From the looks on their faces, it is clear that things are not going very well. 
     He gives her a nod, as if to say he wants to speak to her and that she should 
     figure out some way! ELENA leans over to her MOTHER, whispers something into her 
     ear.
     
     7I  CINEMA PARADISO. TOILET. INT. EVENING
     
     ELENA's MOTHER stands waiting in front of the women's toilet,
     gazing at Mike Bongiorno emceeing the TV show in the distance.
     
     Inside the toilet, ELENA is standing on the toilet seat whispering to
     SALVATORE, who is standing on the 20ilet seat of the men's toilet.
     
     Their eyes are barely able to peek over the flush tank which they have
     uncovered. ELENA is worried.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Could it be your father doesn't like 
          the work I do...That my family's too 
          poor...Is that it? 
     
     She gives a nod of the head, but only faintly, so as no2 to wound his 
     vulnerability. SALVATORE sighs.
     
                    ELENA'S MOTHER  
               (Off-screen) 
          Elena!
     
                    ELENA  
          All right! ! 
               (To Salvatore, in a 
               whisper) 
          For the moment it's impossible to see 
          each other...As soon as school is 
          out, we're going to go stay with 
          friends in Tuscany. We'll be there 
          all summer...Maybe if you came up, 
          we could meet in secret...
                    SALVATORE  
               (Crestfallen) 
          But we're opening the outdoor movie 
          theatre this summer. What will I do 
          all this time without seeing you?!
                    
                    ELENA  
          I'll write to you every day. Don't 
          worry. I love you. The summer'll be 
          over and I'll be back...
     
     They reach out to kiss each other. Who knows when they'll be able to see each 
     other again?
     
                    ELENA'S MOTHER  
               (Off-screen) 
          Elena! 
     
     ELENA climbs down, pulls the chain and walks off, leaving SALVATORE standing 
     there on the toilet seat.
     
     Summer has come. A bevy of barefoot children chase after the carts carrying the 
     carters' families to the beach to go swimming. SALVATORE, helped by the USHER, 
     has finished loading the disassembled projector on to a wagon in order to carry 
     it to the outdoor movie house. The USHER has hung a sign on the Cinema Paradiso 
     to the effect that 'Showings to continue at the Imperia Arena', and now climbs 
     into the wagon. 
     
     The horse moves off slowly and the monotonous clatter of its hoofs reminds 
     SALVATORE that the summer is going to be long this year, longer than ever. And 
     he leans on the projector that totters and lurches from the jolting of the 
     wheels. A cart carrying a cheerful and noisy family pulls up alongside the 
     wagon. There are the MEN from the slaughter-house. They recognize SALVATORE. 
     
                    SLAUGHTER-HOUSE MAN 
          Well, look who's here!! Cecil B. De 
          Mille! Hey, Toto!! When are you 
          coming to shoot another film?!? 
     
     And they laugh, with their gaping toothless mouths. SALVATORE doesn't feel like 
     joking, not even like answering. He looks away, so as not to see their leers. He 
     wants to be by himself. 
     
     73  BEACH AND IMPERIA ARENA. EXT. DAY 
     
     
     The beach is almost deserted, dotted here and there with groups of bathers. The 
     carts and horses are scattered in the sand, near the Imperia Arena, where some 
     WORKMEN are putting on the finishing touches for the new opening. The wagon 
     arrives and SALVATORE and the USHER unload the projector.
     
     74  BEACH. IMPERIA ARENA. PROJECTION BOOTH. EXT.EVENING
     
     A sultry evening. The jacklights of the octopus fishers twinkle on the
     dark horizon. The sound-track of a comic film reverberates over the sea,
     the laughter of the audience mingles with the sound of the shallow waves
     breaking on the rocks. A group of LITTLE BOYS in a boat pulls away
     from shore. They join some more boats standing still in the water, all of
     them crammed with LITTLE BOYS all looking in the same direction...
     towards the screen of the open-air movie at the water's edge. There is a
     funny scene.
     
                    LITTLE BOYS  
          All seats are sold out! Free entrance 
          and payment on the way out!! Sssssh!!
     
     And they guffaw noisily. Their laughter is echoed by more
     laughter, in the distance...
     
     ...the laughter of the Arena audience, scattered among the
     metal chairs. By dint of laughing, the people in one of the rows
     of chairs tip over backwards. Screams, laughs, whistles.
     The projection booth has a door at the back with stairs leading
     down to the rocks. SALVATORE is sitting on the ground, bare
     chested, tired and sticky with sweat. He is reading a letter from
     ELENA. He is so engrossed the words can almost be read on his
     face.
     
                    ELENA'S VOICE  
               (Off-screen) 
          Salvatore, my darling, here the days 
          never end. I find your name 
          everywhere if I read a book, do a 
          crossword puzzle, thumb through a 
          newspaper...You're always before my 
          eyes. Today I've got some rather bad 
          news. At the end of October we're 
          moving to the city where I'll attend 
          the University. It'll be hard to see 
          each other every day. But don't 
          worry, whenever I can get away I'll 
          always come running to you, to the 
          Cinema Paradiso.
     
     On the Arena screen, with its potted plants and palm trees, a
     very funny scene is being shown. The audience again bursts into
     wild laughter. And the audience of LITTLE BOYS in the boats also laugh. One
     of them, laughing himself to tears, loses his balance and falls
     into the water. The others howl with laughter. A voice rises up
     out of the carousel of boats.
     
                    URCHIN  
          Fuck me! I've caught an octopus! An 
          oooooctopus!
     
                              FADE
     
     75  VARIOUS SETTINGS. INT/EXT. DAY 
     
     The August sun is blazing hot. People are forced to stay inside when the sirocco 
     blows. The streets are empty. And there is a strange silence. Nothing can be 
     heard except far in the distance, from somewhere in the country, the love song 
     of some carter...SALVATORE hears it too, stretched out on the floor of his 
     room, his eyes fixed on the ceiling where flies buzz around nervously. The 
     MAILMAN comes down the street on his bicycle, rides up to SALVATORE and hands 
     him a letter...Sitting in the shade of a white wall, SALVATORE reads the 
     letter. Next to him, the dog that kept him company at night, beneath ELENA's 
     window. He gazes up at him as if looking for news of her.
     
     76:ARENA IMPERIA. PROJECTION BOOTH. EXT/INT.EVENING
     
     The Arena is crowded with sun-burnt faces. On screen, scenes from
     Ulysses. On a shelf in the projection booth, there is an enormous pack of 
     letters. SALVATORE is worn out. The waiting has destroyed him. He looks
     like a madman. As he winds up one of the parts of the film, he repeats
     her name obsessively, under his breath.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Elena...Elena...Elena...
     
     Now he is sitting outside on the back steps, a few yards from the
     sea. There is a breeze this evening, the waves are rather high and
     the boats of 'gate-crashers' can be seen out in the water, rolling
     fitfully but not dangerously. SALVATORE stretches out, gazes up
     at the inky sky and talks to himself, just like a madman,
     whispering...
     
                    SALVATORE  
          When will this shitty summer be over? 
               (Half shutting his eyes) 
          In a film it'd already be finished...
               (Smiling)
          ...Fade-out and cut to a nice 
          thunderstorm!!! Huh? that'd be 
          perfect!
     
     A clap of thunder explodes in the air. Loud, rumbling. SALVATORE'S eyes pop 
     open. The Arena audience looks up in alarm at the sky...The 'gate-crashers' in 
     the boats also look up and see a streak of lightning ushering in another clap of 
     thunder. One of those storms is building up that ruins late summer 
     nights. SALVATORE gives a contented smile as the cloudburst pours down 
     violently, suddenly... The Arena audience scatters with a howl and scurries 
     over to the overhanging roofs of the projection booth, to take shelter and to go
     on watching the film despite the rain...
     
     The LITTLE BOYS in the boats quickly pull tarpaulins over their
     heads...But SALVATORE does not get up. He lets the rain fall on him,
     goes on laughing, incredulous and stunned as if a real miracle had
     taken place. And as he shuts his eyes and lifts his head up, to
     catch more rain on his face, and gives himself up to that marvellous feeling of 
     joy, a mouth comes to rest passionately on his lips it is ELENA. SALVATORE opens 
     his eyes in utter amazement, it seems like a vision, another hallucination 
     created by the rain...Instead no, it is really her! 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Elena!...But when...
     
                    ELENA  
          I got back today. You can't imagine 
          the excuses I had to make up to be 
          here...
     
     SALVATORE's lips interrupt her. It is an intense, a stupendous kiss. They've 
     probably never been so happy as they are at that moment. They cling to each 
     other as the rain goes on streaming over their bodies, mingling her hair with 
     his, binding them ever closer.
     
     77  CINEMA PARADISO. ENTRANCE. EXT. DAY
     
     Autumn has arrived. In the streets, the PEASANTS prepare the barrels
     for preserving the grape must. ALFREDO is sitting in front of the Cinema 
     Paradiso with SPACCAFICO and the USHER. It is a quiet moment, they chat, while 
     the humming of the projector and the sound track of the film can be heard 
     through the window of the booth. The MAILMAN stops and hands SPACCAFICO a folded 
     sheet of paper.
     
                    MAILMAN  
          Don Ciccio, this is for Toto. Give it 
          him...
               (And he pedals off on his 
               bicycle.)
     
                    ALFREDO  
          What is it?
     
     SPACCAFICO unfolds it, reads it, claps his hands on his head, in alarm.
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
          Holy blood of Judas! Now what am I 
          going to do??!
     
     78  UNIVERSITY. EXT. DAY
     
     ELENA is waiting near the University. She paces nervously back and
     forth. Glances at her watch. He's late. She looks around in all
     directions and sees him at last. He comes running up to her. They
     embrace...
     
                    ELENA  
          So what'd they say?
     
                    SALVATORE  
          The army says that, as a war orphan, 
          I don't have to serve in the 
          military, but nothing can be done. 
          It's a bureaucratic error. I have to 
          leave. Day after tomorrow morning. 
          They're sending me to Rome. But 
          they'll discharge me ten days later. 
          Let's go...
     
     He takes her hand, turns to go to a café. ELENA holds back. She has caught sight 
     of her FATHER's car approaching. ELENA turns to look and in a faint voice 
     reveals the reason for her nervousness.
     
                    ELENA  
          No, Salvatore. You'd better go. It's 
          my father.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Good, this way we can finally talk. 
          I'll convince him this time.
     
                    ELENA  
          He won't be convinced, Salvatore. He 
          has other plans for me.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Who?
     
                    ELENA  
          The son of one of his colleagues. 
          Don't act that way. We'll talk about 
          it later. Wait for me Thursday at the 
          Cinema Paradiso. I'll be coming with 
          the five o'clock bus. 
     
     SALVATORE looks with longing as ELENA drives away with her father. 
     ELENA gives him a meaningful look through the window. SALVATORE returns the 
     look, but stands there motionless, with a grim expression, like someone who 
     knows how to take the treacherous blows of life. The car drives off and with it 
     ELENA. Their eyes hang on the same thread. The thread of hope and now of fear.
     
     79  CINEMA PARADISO. ENTRANCE. EXT. MORNING
     
     The poster of Il Grido hangs on the billboard outside the theatre.
     SPACCAFICO replaces 'THURSDAY' with a 'TODAY' sticker. The
     CHARWOMAN is washing the floor of the lobby. SPACCAFICO shouts
     up to SALVATORE, who is in the projectionist's booth. SPACCAFICIO
     says that tomorrow he'll be leaving and today is his last day on the job,
     and he's sorry.
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
          Toto, this is no film for the common 
          herd. One day'll be more than 
          enough...So tonight, please set up 
          tomorrow's film, so the projectionist 
          who is coming will find it ready.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          OK...
     
     SPACCAFICO understands SALVATORE's sadness.
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
          Cheer up, Toto. I'll be here waiting 
          for you. No one's taking your job 
          away from you. Don't worry!
     
     80  SQUARE AND PROJECTION BOOTH, CINEMA PARADISO. EXT/INT. DAY
     
     The bus has pulled into the square but among the people getting out
     there is no sign of ELENA. SALVATORE stands nervously up in the window of the 
     projection booth, glances at his watch. It's already five-thirty and she hasn't 
     come. He checks the projector. The first part has just begun and the reel is 
     full of film.
     
     The first part is now about to finish, the reel is almost empty, and ELENA still 
     isn't there. SALVATORE is extremely nervous, worried, mortified by his meeting 
     with her FATHER. 
     He sees ELENA's face pulling away in the car. Thinks back over her 
     terrible confession. He paces back and forth, as if he were in a prison cell, 
     thinking up solutions...The stair light finally goes on; there she is SALVATORE 
     dashes over and down the stairs to meet her. He comes down the final turn of the 
     spiral staircase and finds himself face to face with ALFREDO, who is slowly 
     making his way up with the help of his cane. SALVATORE freezes to the spot. 
     ALFREDO senses his disappointment. 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          You weren't expecting me? 
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Nervously) 
          No, Alfredo, I was coming to help 
          you...
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Smiling) 
          You were expecting her? Huh? 
               (SALVATORE doesn't answer. 
               He's too worried, too 
               upset. ALFREDO climbs 
               another step, whispering.)
          ...It's a nasty business waiting by 
          yourself. In company it's better. 
          No?...Then I'll leave. 
     
     As usual ALFREDO'S sweetness comforts SALVATORE, indeed suddenly gives him a 
     bold idea, one that quiets his nervousness. He puts a hand on ALFREDO'S 
     shoulder.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Alfredo, I need your help!
     
     8I  ROAD TO THE CITY. EXT. AFTERNOON 
     
     The Balilla speeds as fast as it can down the road to the city, where ELENA s 
     family has gone to live. SALVATORE drives along in a state of agitation. The 
     idea of having to leave without seeing ELENA is his obsession. An obsession he 
     refuses to accept...
     
     82 CINEMA PARADISO.PROJECTION BOOTH.INT.AFTERNOON
     
     The second part has begun, the reel is full. For the first time in many
     years, ALFREDO is alone in the booth, sitting in front of the projector,
     and he feels helpless. Not only because he's blind, but also because
     there is nothing he can do for SALVATORE. A strange agitation comes over him, as 
     if he were experiencing the same anxiety troubling his 'Toto' at that moment. 
     Meanwhile, the film roll on and with it, time, minutes...
     
     83  CITY.EXT.AFTERNOON
     
     SALVATORE has already reached the city. He slows down at the bus
     terminus. Looks at the people waiting, but she is not there...
     He asks several girls in front of the University. But they haven't seen
     her...
     
     He phones from a phone booth. But nobody answers. His self-control
     is about to give way to desperation...
     
     84  CINEMA PARADISO.PROJECTION BOOTH.INT.AFTERNOON
     
     On the reel there is less film. Like an hourglass with the sand trickling
     through...
     
     85:ELENAS HOUSE IN THE CITY.EXT/INT.AFTERNOON 
     
     SALVATORE comes streaking up in front of her house. He screeches to a stop, 
     dashes out like greased lightning. His nerves are tense, a slight tremor runs 
     through his whole body. He rings the bell, but nobody answers. A MAN who lives 
     in the building opens the front door and comes out. 
     
     SALVATORE seizes the chance and climbs up to the third floor. He pounds on the 
     door furiously, almost cracking his knuckles. But all to no avail; there is 
     nobody at home. He shrieks, panic stricken. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Open up! Open up! Elenaaa! 
     
     And in fact, there is somebody inside: ELENA's MOTHER. She sits there immobile, 
     without a word. 
     
     The pounding on the door reverberates in the room, but she does not budge, 
     determined to ignore that desperate message.
     
     86:CINEMA PARADISO.PROJECTION BOOTH.INT.AFTERNOON
     
     The reel spins faster. The film is almost ended. By now there is very
     little time...
     
     87  ROAD TO THE VILLAGE. EXT. SUNDOWN 
     
     And SALVATORE is on his way home, defeated. Be drives as fast as he can. Be is 
     in a terrible state, can't figure out what's happened. Can't explain it. And 
     that's what hurts. 
     
     88  CINEMA PARADISO. PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. SUNDOWN
     
     The words 'THE END' appear on the screen...and the film runs out, leaving the 
     projector turning uselessly. ALFREDO is alarmed. He can hear that the film is 
     finished, but doesn't know where to begin. He gropes around. He's scared. Like a 
     little boy calls his mother when he's lost in a crowd, so old ALFREDO calls 
     SALVATORE. 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          TotooooO! TotooooO! 
     
     The few people down in the audience start whistling and complaining about the 
     film they haven't understood. 
     
                    SPECTATORS  
          Lights! Christ, what a piece of 
          crap!! We want OUT money back!!! 
          Heeeeey!! Bandits!! 
     
     Others are shouting that they like the film.
     
     89  CINEMA PARADISO. ENTRANCE. EXT. SUNDOWN 
     
     The Balilla screeches to a stop in front of the theatre. SALVATORE darts out and 
     runs to the stairs...
     
     90  CINEMA PARADISO. PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. SUNDOWN 
     
     SALVATORE turns the lights on in the theatre and turns off the projector, trying 
     to calm down ALFREDO, who has got to his feet, frightened. 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          But where'd you go, Toto?!! 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          I'm here! Take it easy! Take it easy! 
               (And he folds him into his 
               arms, like calming down a 
               little boy who has had a 
               nightmare. Be whispers, 
               still out of breath:) 
          Sit down, sit down...
               (ALFREDO quiets down as 
               SALVATORE lowers him into 
               a chair, and asks him the 
               only question upon which 
               his last hope depends.) 
          Did she come? 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          No, nobody came. 
               (And he embraces him, 
               almost as if to comfort 
               him in his great 
               disappointment.)
     
     For SALVATORE it's really the end: she's not coming. Tomorrow he'll be leaving 
     without having seen her again. 
     
     SALVATORE'S hands remove the photographs of Amedeo Nazzari and of ELENA from the 
     wall, slip them into one of his pockets. 
     
     Now the hands open the metal containers of tomorrow's film, take . 
     out the reels to set them up, pick up the receipt - his last before leaving - 
     and with the same mechanical gesture, hang it on a nail, as usual.
     
     91  ROME. VARIOUS SETTINGS, MILITARY LIFE. EXT/ INT. DAY/NIGHT 
     
     A wild frenetic sequence, set to the pace of military life...SALVATORE, in 
     uniform with close-cropped hair, answers his superior, shouts: 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Radio Operator Di Vita Salvatore! 
          Third Battalion, Ninth Company, 
          sir!!!
     
     Target practice. SALVATORE fires all the shots in the cartridge, one after the 
     other... 
     
     A SECOND LIEUTENANT barks out a march rhythm in the blazing sun. 
     
                    SECOND LIEUTENANT  
          One, two, one, two!! Attention! Left 
          march! 
     
     SALVATORE sneaks out of line, goes over and slips a letter into 
     the mailbox and hurries back to his place.
     
     On one of the public phones in a square of Rome, SALVATORE is phoning ELENA. 
     Nobody answers. He slams down the receiver, as the line of SOLDIERS waits its 
     turn...
     
     Night-time. A large plastic bag full of water. A thud. SALVATORE wakes up with a 
     start in a lake of ice water. He lets out a terrified shriek as the others 
     laugh, protected by the dark. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Aaaaaaah! Heeeeeelp!! 
     
     In the large dormitory, the SERGEANT is handing out the mail. He 
     throws a pile of letters on SALVATORE'S bunk. They are his letters to ELENA, 
     stamped 'ADDRESS UNKNOWN'.
     
     Mess duty. SALVATORE is washing Up, in a sea of water and grease.
     He rimes a pan full of tomato sauce with a tap hose. A spurt of red water 
     splatters him in the face. 
     
     A training run. Another letter which SALVATORE drops into the mailbox...
     
     A cold, rainy night. SALVATORE stands stiff as a poker in front of the 
     Ammunition depot. It is his first guard duty. Soaked to the skin, gazing wide-
     eyed into empty space. 
     
     COLONEL'S office. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Aggressively) 
          Colonel, I was supposed to spend ten 
          days here and it's been about a year, 
          and I haven't ever gone borne. I'd 
          like a furlough, at least! 
     
     SALVATORE is in the guardhouse. A cold, dark, filthy cell. His nerves start to 
     give way. He bows his head in despair. 
     
     Hospital. SALVATORE is exhausted, run-down. The night-stand is jammed with 
     medicines. He lies in bed without moving, staring off into empty space, and 
     repeats obsessively in a low voice, as if talking to himself. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Elena...Elena...Elena...
               (He has touched the 
               extreme of suffering, a 
               young man who has 
               been denied love and 
               affection, his rights, 
               freedom. A NURSE comes 
               up.) 
     
                    NURSE  
          Di Vita Salvatore, get ready, your 
          discharge has come through.
     
     SALVATORE registers this information with his eyes and nods absently.
     
     92  GIANCALDO. SQUARE AND STREETS. EXT. DAY 
     
     The bus disappears around the corner leaving SALVATORE standing there alone. It 
     is a blazing hot day. The sirocco wind blows the yellow dust in all directions. 
     The square is empty, the billboard in front of the closed movie house announces 
     a Western. SALVATORE puts his suitcase on the ground, looks around. Everything 
     exactly the same, immobile. Only one new feature  in the cafe there's a jukebox 
     playing 'Estate' sung by Milva. 
     
     SALVATORE turns towards the Cinema Paradiso. The projectionist is at the 
     window of the booth, smoking a cigarette. Who knows who he is, where he came 
     from. A hot flurry of dust. SALVATORE turns and sees a dog leaping around kim, 
     wagging its tail. It's the dog that kept him company during his nights beneath 
     the window. SALVATORE gives a start of joy, drops his suitcase and leans over to 
     stroke him. Then he hugs him, as if he were an old friend. 
     
     93  ALFREDO'S HOUSE. INT. AFTERNOON 
     
     SALVATORE goes to see ALFREDO. He is still in bed, has just woken up. He is glad 
     to hear his 'Toto'. He feels his forehead, his eyes and cheeks, as if to 'see' 
     him. 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          You 're thinner...You can tell 
          you've not been treated well. 
               (As usual, you can't hide 
               anything from ALFREDO. 
               SALVATORE senses something 
               different in him that he 
               can't figure out, like 
               same wild restlessness 
               within). 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          They tell me you never go out, never 
          talk to anybody. Why?
                    
                    ALFREDO  
          Toto, sooner or later there comes a 
          time when talking or keeping quiet is 
          the same thing. So it's better to 
          shut up. 
               (Changing his lone) 
          It's hot in here. Toto, take me to 
          the beach. 
     
     94  BEACH AND WATERFRONT. EXT. AFTERNOON 
     
     The sea is ruffled and the air is less sultry, easier to breathe. 
     SALVATORE and ALFREDO walk slowly along the waterfront. ALFREDO totters 
     slightly, holds on to SALVATORE, who is telling him something very funny. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          At the Christmas party the lieutenant 
          pinches a girl's ass. The girl turns 
          around: it's the daughter of the 
          commanding officer. The lieutenant is 
          scared to death and says: 'Miss, if 
          your heart is as hard as what I have 
          just touched, I'm done for! 
     
     And they roar with laughter. They look like two old school buddies telling each 
     other dirty jokes. They stop beside a low wall. ALFREDO knows that those laughs 
     are simply a way of uselessly dancing around the countless things that are 
     troubling SALVATORE. And he breaks the ice, while SALVATORE is still 
     laughing.
     
                    ALFREDO  
               (Seriously) 
          Did you ever see her again? 
               (SALVATORE'S laughter dies 
               away, taken off-guard as 
               he is. Then he lights a 
               cigarette.)
     
                    SALVATORE  
          No. And nobody knows where she is. 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          It was probably meant to be like 
          this. Each of us has a star to 
          follow. So now what are you thinking 
          of doing? 
     
     It's a terrible question, and SALVATORE has no answer to it. In fact, would 
     rather not even talk about it. He changes his tone, as if he hadn't heard it, 
     laughs, trying again to ding to the funny jokes he heard during military 
     service.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Listen to this one...The commander 
          says to the sergeant: 'You 
          remember that windmill that used to 
          be there?' 'Yes, sir, I remember the 
          mill's gone but the wind's still 
          there!' 
               (And he bursts into 
               nervous laughter. But this 
               time ALFREDO remains cold, 
               unmoved, does not laugh 
               with him. SALVATORE 
               gradually falls silent. He 
               doesn't know what to say. 
               For the first time in his 
               life, he doesn't know what 
               goal to aim for, doesn't 
               know what to do. The cloud 
               of smoke wreaths his 
               nervous face, now he seems 
               to relax, whispers:) 
          You remember the story of the soldier 
          and the princess? 
               (ALFREDO nods his head.) 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Now I understand why the soldier went 
          away just before the end. That's 
          right, just one more night and the 
          princess would have been his. But 
          she, also, could not have kept her 
          promise. And...that would have been 
          terrible, he would have died from it. 
          So instead, for ninety-nine nights at 
          least he had lived with the illusion 
          that she was there waiting for him...
               (This time SALVATORE is 
               the one to explain 
               something to ALFREDO. And 
               ALFREDO realizes how 
               bitter his story is and, 
               above all, that the boy 
               standing there is no 
               longer a boy...) 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Do like the soldier, Toto! Go away! 
          This land is cursed. 
               (They are now leaning 
               against a boat on the 
               beach. ALFREDO goes on 
               whispering his words.) 
          When you're here every day you feel 
          like you're at the center
          of the universe, it seems like 
          nothing ever changes. Then you go 
          away, one year, two...And when you 
          come back, everything's different. 
          The thread has broken. You don't 
          find those you were looking for, your 
          things no longer exist. Isn't that 
          the case?...You've got to go away a 
          long time, for many, many years, 
          before coming back and finding your 
          people again, the land where 
          you were born...But not now, it's 
          impossible. Now you're blinder than I 
          am.
               (Intense words, straight 
               from the heart, and 
               SALVATORE is spellbound. 
               He whispers with a smile:) 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Who said that? Gary Cooper, James 
          Stewart, Henry Fonda? Huh? 
               (ALFREDO also gives a 
               gentle smile) 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          No, Toto, nobody said it. I say it! 
          Life's not like you saw it in the 
          movies. Life...is harder. 
               (He lays his hand on 
               SALVATORE'S shoulder, 
               gives it a hard squeeze.) 
          Get out! Go back to Rome. You 're 
          young, the world is yours! And I'm 
          old...I don't want to hear you talk 
          any more, I want to hear talk about 
          you. 
     
     SALVATORE gives a shudder that runs through his very soul. The setting sun lies 
     colorless on the horizon.
     
     95  VARIOUS SETTINGS. EXT/INT. NIGHT 
     
     Night. The square is empty. SALVATORE is sitting on the church steps. 
     His head in his hands. He has to make a decision leave or stay. And why?... 
     'What decision will he make?' is the question that keeps ALFREDO awake, in his 
     hot dark bedroom...
     
     MARIA, his mother, also can't get to sleep. She knows, senses, that her son is 
     on the verge of an important turning-point. But what will he decide? What will 
     happen?...
     
     Also LIA, his sister, feels a strange, heavy tension in the air. And 
     doesn't sleep. She's probably wondering where SALVATORE is at that 
     hour... 
     
     He's sitting on the ground. But even if he were to go to bed he wouldn't 
     sleep. He rubs his face with his hand. The church bell chimes four a.m...
     
     ALMOST THIRTY YEARS LATER, another distant bell is chiming four a.m. And 
     SALVATORE is once again wide awake. He is thinking, with his hand on his face, 
     just like then. And the same decision to make: what to do? Stretched out beside 
     a sleeping WOMAN, he goes on staring at the window. Outside, the storm has 
     passed. The long memory has almost faded, only the sound of a train surfaces in 
     his mind...
     
     96  GIANCALDO RAILWAY STATION. EXT. DAY
     
     It's the train that THIRTY YEARS EARLIER had pulled into the station
     of his home town before leaving for Rome. SALVATORE hugs his 
     MOTHER and SISTER. The moment has come to say goodbye to  
     ALFREDO. The old man is deeply moved. A heart-rending trembling
     comes into his husky voice. 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Don't come back any more, don't think 
          about us, don't turn round, don't 
          write, don't give in to nostalgia. 
          Forget us all. If you can't hear it 
          and come back, don't come looking for 
          me, I won't let you into the house, 
          you understand? 
     
     They clasp each other tightly, as if they knew they wouldn't be meeting 
     again...
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Thanks for all you've done for me. 
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Whatever you do, love it like you 
          loved that projection booth of the 
          Paradiso when you were little...
               (The train moves now. 
               Hands wave in the air, 
               drawing further and 
               further away. The PRIEST 
               has arrived at the last 
               moment and waves goodbye 
               from the distance.)
     
                    PRIEST  
               (Shouting) 
          Goodbye, TotooooooO!!! I got here too 
          late. What a shame! 
     
     The figure of ALFREDO and the others can no longer be distinguished. Only a 
     distant blur at the end of the track. 
     
     97  PUNTA RAISI AIRPORT. EXT. DAY 
     
     THIRTY YEARS LATER, a plane flies over Sicily. It lands on the 
     runway char seems to emerge from the sea and flatten out towards the slopes of 
     the dark mountains. Salvatore's face appears among the clouds reflected in one 
     of the plane windows. He has the tense look of the man who suddenly comes home 
     after the adventure of life has carried him afar, wandering the world, where he 
     has forgotten everything. From the plane window to another window...
     
     98  SUPERHIGHWAY. INT/EXT. DAY 
     
     ...the window of the taxi-cab driving SALVATORE to his home town. The scenery 
     moving by on either side of the road summons up sweet memories. A lot of things 
     have changed, but the colors are still the same. The yellow running through the 
     entire landscape is unmistakable. And all those black birds perched in a row on 
     the guard-rail are crows. 
     
     The cab now approaches the outskirts of Giancaldo. But if the sign, 
     hadn't been there with the name on it, it could be an entirely different 
     place...
     
     99  SALVATORE'S MOTHER'S HOUSE. EXT/INT. DAY
     
     The house where SALVATORE'S MOTHER lives is also new, nearer the 
     sea. 
     
     The old lady is sitting alone in an armchair in the parlor, knitting a white 
     sweater. Her hands move very swiftly, almost mechanically. 
     
     The hands of a woman who is waiting. The front doorbell rings twice. MARIA stops 
     short. That is what she has been waiting for. She mumbles in excitement. 
     
                    MARIA  
          It's Toto...I knew it...
     
     And she scrambles to her feet, dropping her knitting in the chair, one needle 
     dangling over the edge. She hurries off, forgetting that she still has the ball 
     of white yarn in her apron pocket. And the yarn runs off the needles and the 
     knitting comes undone quickly as she moves about the house, goes down the stairs 
     to the front door.   
     
     There the yam stops and MARIA' s excited voice is heard.
     
                    MARIA 'S VOICE  
               (Off-screen) 
          Toto!...
     
                    SALVATORE'S VOICE (Off-screen) 
          How are you, Mamma?... 
     
     The camera now moves, discovering them through the parlor window, hugging each 
     other outside the front door. Under the curious eyes of an old bored dog.
     
     100  SALVATORE'S MOTHER'S HOUSE. INT. DAY 
     
     MARIA is no longer wearing an apron. Mother and son are sitting side 
     by side at the kitchen table...
     
                    MARIA  
          Lia'll be so glad to see you, you'll 
          see. And you won't recognize the 
          kids any more, they're grown up by 
          now. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Smiling) 
          They're always writing to me saying 
          they want to come to Rome!
     
     SALVATORE looks around; It's a place he's never seen before, and yet it's 
     his mother's house.)
      
                    MARIA  
          See how pretty the house is? We did 
          everything over.
               (Smiling) 
          If it hadn't been for you! 
               (Getting up) 
          Come, I have a surprise.... 
               (She takes him by the hand 
               and leads him out to the 
               hallway. SALVATORE looks 
               at her and feels a pang. 
               She seems smaller, age 
               withers the body, she is 
               slightly stooped, her hair 
               is gathered into a knot at 
               the back other head.)
          You must be tired. If you want to 
          rest, there's time before the 
          funeral. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Interrupting her) 
          No, Mamma, it only takes an hour by 
          air, you know. 
     
                    MARIA  
               (Smiling, ironically) 
          You shouldn't tell me that now. After 
          all these years! 
               (SALVATORE gets the 
               message, feels guilty. 
               Thinking about it, it 
               seems incredible that he 
               has never come before. 
               MARIA opens a door, steps 
               aside to let her son in, 
               whispers:) 
          I put all your things in here. Go in, 
          go in...
     
     SALVATORE lakes a few steps, is flabbergasted at the sight of his old room 
     perfectly reconstructed and preserved. It looks like a museum, the museum of the 
     past. Despite the bed, the clothes in the cupboard, the books on the shelves, it 
     is perfectly clear that no one has ever lived in it and never will live in it. 
     MARIA senses his perturbation, remains standing in the doorway as if to leave 
     him alone...SALVATORE goes over to the bed, looks around  the old 8mm movie 
     camera, the projector, his documentaries, the bicycle hanging on the wall, the 
     photographs of his favorite movie stars. But what mostly catches his eye is a 
     tiny framed photograph: SALVATORE as a little boy and ALFREDO, standing smiling 
     in front of the Cinema Paradiso. Strange, at that time ALFREDO was younger than 
     he is now! It's as if he were standing there before him one last time. That 
     impressive figure, his good-natured bur firm look, touches his heart. From 
     ALFREDO'S smiling face to...
     
     101  GIANCALDO. MAIN STREET AND SQUARE. EXT. DAY 
     
     ...the coffin where his old blind friend rests for ever. The funeral
     procession winds its way down the main street. At the intersections, , 
     cars stop to let the black hearse pass by. People cross themselves. The old men 
     remove their hats. Store shutters are lowered. Then, when the procession has 
     passed by, the cars start up again, the old men put their hats back on, the 
     shutters are pulled up. 
     
     SALVATORE is in the front row with his MOTHER, next to ALFREDO'S WIDOW. 
     SIGNORA ANNA says in a whisper, her eyes fixed on the coffin.  
     
                    ANNA  
          He would have been happy you came, 
          Toto. He always talked about you. 
          Always! Right to the end! He was 
          terribly fond of you...
               (Tears come to her, she is 
               unable to say any more. 
               SALVATORE gives her a hug, 
               deeply touched by her 
               words.) 
          He left two things for you. Come see 
          me before you leave. 
     
     SALVATORE nods his head. He gazes intensely at the coffin covered with flowers 
     and is grieved as if he were ashamed never to have come to see the man who had 
     been like a father to him. But why had he forgotten him? Up in front, leading 
     the procession, he sees a young PRIEST with an altar boy beside him, and these 
     figures are also like chisels scraping the rust off his soul and bringing old 
     feelings to light again. 
     
     The procession reaches the square. The dark column stands etched in the dazzling 
     early-afternoon light. SIGNORA ANNA motions the driver and the procession comes 
     to a halt. It is ALFREDO'S last farewell to the place where he had spent the 
     best years of his life  the Cinema Paradiso. Everyone turns to look and 
     SALVATORE also turns, taken by surprise...It has fallen to pieces: doors and 
     windows boarded shut, crumbling walls, a piece of the sign dangling down, weeds 
     and mildew in the cracks and on the roof. The square has changed completely, is 
     unrecognizable. Buildings, stores, sign boards and lines of cars creeping at a 
     snail's pace in a deafening chorus of honking horns. And the central square has 
     turned motorcycles. SALVATORE turns slowly to look behind him, towards the small 
     crowd, and is entranced by the unexpected sight of faces that he recognizes at 
     once, despite the many years that have gone by:  the MAN AT THE BOX OFFICE, the 
     USHER who also served as bill-poster, the CHARWOMAN, the CARABINIERE SERGEANT, 
     and further on behind ROSA and ANGELO, the lovebirds who had met in the movie 
     house and then got married. They all have white hair. And they too have 
     recognized him, give little hello nods and gestures. Another face 
     he seems to recognize: why sure, it's SPACCAFICO, the owner. How old he's 
     become! He also looks up and his eyes meet SALVATORE'S. A hello nod. 
     SALVATORE makes his way over to him through the crowd. They shake hands 
     heartily, without a word, both touched. The procession starts up again. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Under his breath) 
          How long's it been shut? 
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
          Six years ago this May. No one came 
          any more. You "know better than me, 
          Mr. Di Vita, the crisis, television, 
          videos. By now the movie business is 
          only a dream. The city's bought it 
          now to make a new parking lot. Next 
          Saturday they're 
          tearing it down...A pity!...
     
     SALVATORE is disconcerted, irritated by that 'Mr. Di Vita'. Besides, finding 
     out that the movie house is to be torn down depresses him, after all, it's a 
     piece of his life...And all those curious faces staring at him.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          But why do you call me 'Mr. Di Vita'? 
          It didn't used to be that way...
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
          Well, it's hard to call an important 
          person by his first name. But if it 
          really matters to you, I'11 call 
          you...
               (Smiling) 
          Toto!...
     
     SALVATORE smiles at that. Meanwhile, the procession has reached the church. 
     SALVATORE excuses himself and goes over to the hearse. Old SPACCAFICO watches 
     him go, then says, almost to himself) 
     
                    SPACCAFICO  
          Bless you, Toto. 
     
     The coffin is unloaded. SALVATORE has asked to be one of the 
     bearers into the church. As he moves off slowly with that weight 
     on his shoulder, somebody catches his eye on the other side of the sidewalk. An 
     old woman, sixty or seventy years old, with a plastic bag in her hand. She 
     crosses herself quickly. SALVATORE recognizes her  she was the one he made love 
     with for the first time. TERESA, the prostitute. The coffin is carried into the 
     church, followed by the little procession. 
     
     102  SALVATORE' S MOTHER'S HOUSE. EXT/INT. EVENING 
     
     The little house is sunk in the darkness of evening and the ground floor
     windows are lit up. The rustling of the sea can be heard. The family is having 
     supper. The table is set with the finest silver and the company china has been 
     brought out. LIA is also there with her husband, ALFIO, and their two children. 
     FILIPPO, fifteen, and SARA, thirteen. The television is on, but the sound has 
     been turned practically all the way down. SALVATORE'S presence arouses a special 
     excitement. The children look at their uncle with a certain awe, after all they 
     don't really know him. 
     
                    SARA  
               (Playfully) 
          Uncle, the next time Granny comes to 
          Rome, I want to come along too. I 
          want to see what you do when you 
          work...
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Smiling) 
          Fine. But I warn you, there isn't 
          much to see. I sell much more smoke 
          than fire...
     
     The CHILDREN laugh. At the sight of them, LIA, ALFIO and MARIA also smile.
     
                    ALFIO 
               (To SALVATORE) 
          Watch out, don't get too familiar 
          with those two 
               (indicating the children)
          they're worse than cannibals. They'll 
          take advantage. 
     
     Everybody laughs again. Even MARIA laughs a lot. SALVATORE looks at her; he had 
     never seen her laugh like that, amused, at peace.
     
                    FILIPPO  
          You leaving tomorrow, Uncle? 
     
     SALVATORE doesn't know what to say. He feels drunk. It has been a day of violent 
     upheavals, a series of almost overwhelming emotions and now he knows nothing  on 
     the one hand, he' d like to stay, let himself drift on the sweet tide of family 
     life, be completely carried off by the rolling waves of his own past: on the 
     other, he wishes he had never come. He forces himself to smile again.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          I don't know, Filippo. I don't 
          know...
     
     They go on eating, but SALVATORE isn't very hungry. Re peers at LIA eating out 
     of the comer of his eye, feels deeply bound to her  she has a few white hairs 
     and light wrinkles line her face. 
     
     Then he looks at her husband, ALFIO, he's going bald but he tries to hide it by 
     combing over the little hair left. Who knows what their marriage is like, he 
     wonders. He looks back at LIA, and it's as if she sensed it, she looks up, 
     guesses the nature of his thoughts, imagines what he is trying to figure out, a 
     blush colors her cheeks and she smiles. SALVATORE returns a conniving smile.
     The ringing of a phone. SARA starts to get up to go and answer it, hut MARIA 
     stops her with a glance of the eye.
     
                    MARIA  
               (To SALVATORE) 
          It must be for you...They've been 
          calling all afternoon. They wanted to 
          know if you're leaving this evening 
          or tomorrow...
     
     Everyone turns to SALVATORE with questioning looks, making him feel even more 
     restless and undecided. The phone goes on ringing.
     
     103  CINEMA PARADISO. EXT. DAY . 
     
     The TRAFFIC cops are trying to break the front door down with their
     shoulders. Once, twice, and at last, the door flies open with a screech, 
     kicking up a cloud of dust. SALVATORE enters by himself...
     
     104  CINEMA PARADISO. PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. DAY 
     
     SALVATORE'S silhouette stands out against the light in the open door. S lowly he 
     makes his way into the empty theatre. A thick layer of dust lends everything a 
     gray, rarefied look. The light streaming in from the windows up above teems with 
     strange mates of dust, like a haze. 
     
     Cobwebs hang like long veils from the ceiling. SALVATORE walks down the middle 
     aisle. The rows of seats are unhinged, what was once the wooden veneer has 
     warped from the dampness. He looks around as if he Were thumbing through the 
     album of his memories.  
     
     The screen dangles from its frame. The emergency exits are boarded 
     and nailed shut. Observing the emptiness of the theatre, SALVATORE 
     has the feeling he can hear the howling, the whistling and voices of the . 
     audience, as he remembers it. But only for one brief moment, then the silence 
     returns. A mouse creeps along one wall, stops near a pile of dust. SALVATORE is 
     attracted by that little gray mass. He goes over as the mouse scampers off, 
     takes a closer look and recognizes the shape of half a lion's head covered with 
     dust. He moves it with his foot, then looks up at the projection booth, 
     repeating the same gesture of bygone years. But the lion's head is no longer 
     there, only the outline of it on the wall, and cobwebs have covered the hales of 
     the booth, those little square openings that had caused him such long suffering 
     as a little boy...SALVATORE now climbs up the spiral staircase. Each step kicks 
     up a little cloud of dust. 
     
     The little booth, yellow with fumes, appears before him again. Now it 
     looks like some big, empty cave. The projector is no longer there, nor 
     the equipment. Who knows where they junked them?! The only thing left is a clump 
     of film strips still attached to the wall: trailers, Part One 
     endings, etc...There he had kissed ELENA for the first time, and
     strips of film like those had grazed their faces. Now they are caught up
     in the coils of cobwebs. And where the film-winder once stood, the
     nails remain with thousands of yellowing receipts. Of all the films 
     shown at the Cinema Paradiso Palace. And three more boxfuls of 
     them are on the floor. 
     
     And the windows overlooking the square are bolted shut and the glass   
     broken. SALVATORE peers out of one of the cracks in the window and
     sees the village...which is now a city. A different world he no longer 
     knows. 
     
     105  CAFÉ IN SQUARE. INT/EXT. DAY 
     
     The cafe in the square has been completely renovated. The CASHIER and BARMEN 
     have young, unfamiliar faces. SALVATORE holds out the receipt with a tip. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          A double whisky, please. 
     
     Several BOYS are sitting at the comer tables, talking about girls. Others stand 
     playing 'war games', shake around to the obsessive strains of same electronic 
     tune. 
     
     A man comes up to SALVATORE and asks for his autograph. Then SALVATORE turns to 
     the plate-glass window overlooking the main street, where the workers' club once 
     was. And like a flash, a shudder freezes him to the spot.... Two steps away 
     from 
     him, through the glass, a stunning vision, which casts him beyond time, chills 
     his blood: there before him is ELENA! But she is still young, young as she was 
     then! Sweet, luminous, alluring, exactly the way he saw her the first time at 
     the station. 
     
     She is waiting to go across the street with a bunch of books under her 
     arm...Have the passing years had no effect on her? Or is she an hallucination? 
     No! It's a dream! Or is he dead too, like ALFREDO? SALVATORE doesn't know how to 
     explain it. And he is suddenly seized by a feeling of panic. His glass drops to 
     the floor...As the GIRL walks off... 
     
     106  GIANCALDO. STREET. EXT. DAY 
     
     At the age of fifty-five, SALVATORE feels no scruples about wandering
     the streets of his home town, spying from a distance on an eighteen- year-old 
     girl. There's nothing he can do about it. He stares at her with the amazement of 
     someone who discovers that miracles exist. Now he is nearer to her. How lovely 
     she is! It's her, no doubt about it! Exactly the same. Except she has a 
     different hair-do and is wearing different clothes:  ELENA didn't wear slacks. 
     The GIRL goes up to a parked motorcycle. She removes the padlock and fastens her 
     books to the rack. SALVATORE is standing there a few steps away, and without 
     stopping to think, moves a little closer, discreetly, politely.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Excuse me, Miss...
               (She turns to look at him, 
               indifferent, but friendly. 
               He looks at her wonderful 
               blue eyes.) 
          I'm so sorry, I thought you were 
          someone else. 
               
                    GIRL  
               (Shrugging) 
          Well. 
     
     She has already started the motor of her bike. A flip of the accelerator and 
     off she goes, her hair flying in the wind. 
     
     SALVATORE follows her with his eyes until she disappears around the corner.
     
     107  SALVATORE'S MOTHER'S HOUSE. INT. AFTERNOON 
     
     The old shots of ELENA getting off the train and walking away, casting a curious 
     look at the camera...SALVATORE is watching her again, projected on the white 
     wall of his room. He also watches the other shots of those happy long-gone days  
     the picnic,. she at the beach, smiling, joyful...And again SALVATORE doesn't 
     understand, or doesn't want to understand. But these scenes could have been shot 
     yesterday, so identical to ELENA is the girl he saw on the street...And the 
     wound which he thought had healed years ago, starts bleeding again. 
     
     The lingering note of suffering for a romance that had ended without his ever 
     knowing why, and the endless explanations that had been sifted through by his 
     young mind, start slipping through his soul again, like those shots 
     slipping again through an old 8mm projector. 
     
     Through the crack of the door, MARIA sees those images on the wall, SALVATORE 
     rocking his head back and forth slowly, like he used to do as a boy when he 
     cried. She somehow feels his grief, his bitterness, lowers her eyes and walks 
     away without a word, as the little shiny rectangle on the wall remains blank, 
     empty...And SALVATORE sits there gazing at it, as if he saw other scenes which 
     his camera never set down on film, only his memory. 
      
     108  HIGH SCHOOL. STREETS AND LITTLE SQUARE. EXT. DAY 
     
     The HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS are coming out after school. Happy young faces. That 
     GIRL 's motorcycle can be seen in a rear-view mirror. SALVATORE is at the wheel 
     of the car ALFIO has lent him. He has obviously followed that motorcycle before. 
     He waits with an eagerness he thought he had long lost, a determination to 
     understand, to get to the bottom of the matter, which frightens him and at the 
     same time overwhelms him hopelessly. 
     
     And here she comes. She unlocks the padlock and prepares to speed off. SALVATORE 
     starts the motor and follows her a short distance away. The GIRL heads for the 
     new residential district on the outskirts. 
     
     109  SALVATORE'S MOTHER'S HOUSE. INT. DAY 
     
     MARIA is setting the table. LIA and her family are eating at her 
     house today. SALVATORE is sitting again, with a lighted cigarette, 
     gazing through the window at the shrubs tossing in the wind and the 
     rolling sea. The air whistling through the cracks of the windows lends a 
     heaviness to the silence, like the troubled look on his face. MARIA glances at 
     him. 
     
                    MARIA  
          What are you thinking, Toto? 
     
     SALVATORE looks at the old woman's lovely face, a faint smile. on his lips. 
     There was always something like an unspoken rule between them, the rule of 
     silence, of unconfessed complicity. And now he feels that rule has to be broken. 
     He speaks quietly, as if to curb the tumult of his feelings of guilt.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          I was thinking...that we've never 
          talked, Mamma...When I was little I 
          saw you as if you were already old. 
          That's probably true with all kids...
          Who knows? 
               (She nods, then sits down 
               before him. He strokes her 
               old, skinny, heavily 
               veined hands...) 
          But only now do I realize you were 
          young, you were beautiful, had a 
          whole life before you. But how...
               (Sighing) 
          ...how could you have lived alone 
          all that time, with no one to look 
          after you? You could have 
          remarried...Why not? At the time I 
          probably wouldn't have understood, 
          but I would have later...
     
     MARIA doesn't answer, but she is not troubled. An inner peace lends her a sweet, 
     quiet expression. Then she too agrees to break the rule of silence. 
     
                    MARIA  
          I never had anybody. If that's what 
          you think...I didn't want anybody. I 
          always remained faithful. First to 
          your father, then to you, to Lia. 
               (With a shrug) 
          That's the way I'm made, there's 
          nothing I can do about it. 
               (Smiling) 
          And you're like me, you're too honest 
          and too attached to the things you
          love...But I don't know if that's a 
          good thing. Faithfulness is a bad 
          business. If you're faithful, you're 
          always alone! 
               (SALVATORE is immersed in 
               the profound truth of 
               those words. And he says 
               nothing. The silence is 
               broken by the ringing of 
               the phone. A menacing 
               sound, which SALVATORE 
               cannot bear. He knows they 
               are calling him from Rome, 
               gives a nervous gesture, 
               stands up and pulls out 
               the plug. The silence 
               returns, the whistling of 
               the wind. MARIA lowers her 
               eyes.) 
          It's my fault! It would have been 
          better if I hadn't called you... 
     
     SALVATORE sits down again, leaning closer to her. He stubs out his cigarette in 
     the already overflowing ashtray.
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Whispering) 
          No...It's nothing to do with you. 
          It's just that I was scared of coming 
          back. Now, after all these years, I 
          thought I was strong, that I had 
          forgotten lots of things. Instead, I 
          find it's quite the opposite, as if I 
          had never left. And yet, I look at 
          Lia and feel as if I didn't know her, 
          and you, Mamma...I abandoned you, 
          ran away like a thief, thought only 
          of myself, and never gave you 
          an explanation...
     
                    MARIA  
               (Interrupting him) 
          And I never asked for one! You have 
          nothing to explain. I always thought 
          that what you did was right, and that 
          was that. With no beating around the 
          bush...
               (Smiling, playing it down) 
          Only one thing made me suffer: 
          bolting the door shut before going to 
          bed at night...
     
                    SALVATORE  
          You never used to do that! 
     
     She smiles like a little girl who is about to confess the fibs she has told.
     
                    MARIA  
          No, no...When you used to work at 
          the movies, I could never get to 
          sleep at night until you came home. 
          Then when you arrived, I pretended to 
          be asleep, but I heard all your 
          movements. Then when you fell asleep, 
          I'd get up and bolt the door. Then, 
          when you left, every time I did it, I 
          felt as if I had left somebody 
          outside the door, far away.... 
               (SALVATORE listens to his 
               MOTHER'S words, surprised 
               and entranced by the 
               poetry of her way of 
               speaking...) 
          But you were right to leave. You 
          succeeded in doing what you wanted to 
          do...
               (Sighing) 
          When I call you, a different, woman 
          always answers. I pretend I know them 
          so they won't have to go through the 
          embarrassment of introducing 
          themselves. 
               (Smiling) 
          I'm sure they take me for a crazy old 
          woman. But so far I've never heard 
          one voice that really loves you...I 
          would have known. And yet, I'd like 
          to see you...settled down...fall in 
          love...
               (Gazing into his eyes) 
          But your life's there. Here there are 
          nothing but ghosts, Toto! Let it go. 
     
     She has said this with a subtle allusiveness in her voice. And SALVATORE 
     realizes she has always known everything. But he doesn't' answer her. 
     They look at each other a Long time without speaking. Their rule of conniving 
     silence has come back into play, as before, forever. It is her expression that 
     tells him to leave, to take the plane and fly away...
     
     110  SMALL SQUARE AND HOUSE. INT/EXT. EVENING 
     
     But SALVATORE has not taken his MOTHER'S advice. Re has not left. Something 
     holds him there still, leads him to go on looking. 
     
     The GIRL'S motorcycle is parked in the courtyard beyond the gate of a small 
     house. He is studying it from inside the car parked in a corner of the small 
     square, near a café. Re has been there some while, but is not nervous, waits 
     there with determination...
     
     Several windows in the house are lit, but no one can be seen through 
     the curtains. Nothing but shadows pass by every now and then. Now the light in 
     one of the windows goes out, and the light on the stair goes on. The front door 
     opens and the GIRL comes out with a tall, sturdy- looking, elegantly dressed 
     GENTLEMAN around fifty. 
     
     They converse bur are too far away for their voices to be heard. SALVATORE 
     watches them come out the gate and climb into a car. They look like father and 
     daughter. The car now drives off and passes right by him. A gleam of light, 
     the reflection from the headlights, falls on the GENTLEMAN'S face. He recognizes 
     him at once, from the birthmark on his temple...
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (To himself) 
          Boccia! 
     
     His eyes flash, he's afraid he's understood. And now the craze to get to the 
     bottom of it all gnaws away at him. There is no turning back. 
     
     111 CAFÉ. AND SMALL SQUARE. INT/EXT. EVENING 
     
     SALVATORE'S hands rifle through a phone directory. He is in the cafe, on the 
     other side of the glass door leading to the little square. His finger 
     runs down the column of names...
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (Mumbling) 
          His last name was Lo Meo, Vincenzo. 
     
     He has already put the token into the slot and dials the number, looking at the 
     two lit upstairs windows of that house, where the mystery of his life may be 
     hiding. SALVATORE hears the first ring, his heart in his throat...A shadow 
     appears in one of the windows. And a voice answers. 
     
                    VOICE ON TELEPHONE  
          Hello? 
               (It's a woman's voice. 
               SALVATORE shuts his eyes, 
               is about to speak, but the 
               lump in his throat 
               silences him...) 
     
                    VOICE ON TELEPHONE  
          Hello? Hello? 
     
     He still hesitates, can' t get a word out, as if he had lost his voice or 
     didn't know what to say. He hangs up. The shadow at the window also hangs up, 
     then disappears... 
     
     SALVATORE is at a loss, sits down at one of the rabies near the 
     phone in the almost empty cafe. At the far end, a group of five people watching 
     television.
     
                    BARMAN  
          You want something? 
     
     And he turns back to the television. SALVATORE lights a cigarette. He is 
     uncertain. Once again he has to lake an important decision  redial the number 
     and seek a face behind that shadow? Or forget the whole thing, the GIRL, BOCCIA, 
     the shadow, and go away? Yes, best go away. He gets up and leaves. He can be 
     seen through the window turning the comer. A pack of cigarettes and a lighter 
     lie on the table, he has forgotten them. And the lighted cigarette bums down in 
     the ashtray. A few moments have gone by. Footsteps, and a hand picks up the 
     lighter and the cigarettes. It is SALVATORE who now, on a sudden urge, slips 
     another token into the slot. The shadow reappears at the window. The same voice 
     as before.
      
                    VOICE ON TELEPHONE  
          Hello, who's speaking? 
     
     SALVATORE answers at last, keeping his eyes shut, whispering:
      
                    SALVATORE  
          I'd like to speak to Signora Elena...
     
                    VOICE ON TELEPHONE  
          Speaking. Who is it, please? 
     
     SALVATORE feels a terrible pang, continues:
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Salvatore. 
     
     Silence, charged with tension. Then the voice continues weakly, as if puzzled.
     
                    VOICE ON TELEPHONE  
          Salvatore...who? 
     
     He runs his hand over his forehead, his eyes, as if to soothe the turmoil he 
     feels inside.
     
                    SALVATORE 
          Di Vita. Salvatore Di Vita. Do you 
          remember? 
               (Another pause chilly, 
               heavy. SALVATORE opens his 
               eyes, looks at the window. 
               Her shadow is motionless, 
               as if cut out of 
               cardboard.) 
          Elena, I'm here, in the bar, across 
          the street from your house. 
     
     The shadow moves slowly, a hand pulls aside the curtain. It's a moment of heart-
     rending emotion...She appears. And they see each other from a distance, after 
     thirty years, each of them with a phone receiver to their ear. But she is 
     somewhat in the dark, against the light, it's impossible to make out her 
     features. Her voice gives a sudden start, instantly controlled.
      
                    VOICE ON TELEPHONE  
          Certainly, I remember...
     
     SALVATORE'S eyes glisten, try to pierce the distance and the darkness to get a 
     better look, but in vain. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Elena. I'd like to see you...Let's 
          meet. 
     
     ELENA lets the curtain drop and goes back to being a shadow. She whispers the 
     words.
     
                    VOICE ON TELEPHONE  
          It's been so long. Why should we 
          meet? What good would it do? 
     
                    SALVATORE 
          Please, don't say no.. . 
     
     But her voice is firm, unshakeable, even if quivering with emotion.
     
                    VOICE ON TELEPHONE  
          I'm old, Salvatore. And you too. It's 
          best not to meet. Goodbye. 
     
     The shadow hangs up, disappears. The light goes off.
     
     112  DIFFERENT SETTINGS. INT/EXT. EVENING 
     
     The wind is stronger now, the streets and the square are empty. SALVATORE 
     is at the wheel of the car, driving aimlessly around the town. He has 
     rediscovered the woman who conditioned his whole life and they hadn't had the 
     courage to meet. An obsessive musical heat, fraught with rage, pours out of the 
     car radio. 
     
     113  SALVATORE'S MOTHER'S HOUSE. INT. EVENING 
     
     A phone ringing drowns out the sound of the television and the wind  
     whistling outside. In the half-darkened room, MARIA picks up the receiver...  
     
                    MARIA  
          Hello?
     
     No one answers, but she can sense the presence of someone who now hangs up. 
     MARIA is alarmed. Who could it be at this hour? And where is Toto?
     
     114  SEAFRONT AND PIER. EXT/INT. CAR. EVENING 
     
     SALVATORE stands motionless on the pier, facing the storm-tossed sea. He feels 
     relieved by the roar of the waves that dispels his bitter thoughts, blurs them, 
     but does not wipe out the look of suffering in his eyes. A flashing light seems 
     to approach behind his back. SALVATORE turns and is blinded by the headlights of 
     a car parked at the beginning of the pier. The splattering waves lend the scene 
     a hazy cast and diffuse the glare of the flashing headlights. Now the lights 
     move towards him. And SALVATORE also lakes a few timid steps forward... 
     They are close. The car has almost stopped. But it is impossible to make out the 
     person at the wheel who now reaches over to open the other door. A voice can be 
     barely heard over the raging sea. It is ELENA's voice. 
     
                    ELENA  
          Salvatore! 
     
     SALVATORE approaches, accepting the invitation, enters the car and shuts the 
     door. The headlights go off and the car remains there suspended between the open 
     sea and the harbor with its rocking boats. Inside the car, not a word. Two dark 
     figures gaze at each other, unintelligible, as if the night were trying to 
     further delay that meeting. The glowing reflection of a wave higher than the 
     others now lights up their faces. ELENA was right, they are no longer the faces 
     of teenagers, but of people on in years who study each other, searching for a 
     truth. The howling of the wind and the crashing of the waves are louder, but 
     ELENA and SALVATORE /rear nothing, sit glued to their seats, fixed in the 
     endless gaze that envelops them. He is the first to break the silence in a faint  
     voice.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          How'd you know I'd be here? 
     
     ELENA  I don't know how many years have gone by, but some things about you I do 
     remember. There weren't many, places you could have gone. I looked around...
     
     SALVATORE turns on the light of the rear-view mirror. Finally 
     they can see better. They look at each other a little ill at ease, 
     making the inevitable comparisons with the memory of their young faces. 
     SALVATORE carefully observes her graying hair, her blue eyes lined 
     with wrinkles, the somewhat faded beauty mark on her lip.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          You're still beautiful...
     
                    ELENA  
          Don't be silly...I'm old.
               (She looks down troubled 
               by the way he has of 
               gazing into her eyes, 
               speaks almost mumbling her 
               words.) 
          Don't look at me like that, please. 
               (And she switches off the 
               light. But this time it is 
               less dark, things can be 
               seen.) 
          Why'd you come back? 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Alfredo died. Do you remember him? 
     
                    ELENA  
          Of course I remember him. I'm sorry. 
          You were terribly fond of him. 
     
     A moment of silence. It's hard to find something to say.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          I saw your daughter. She's beautiful! 
          Who knows how many Salvatores 
          must be running after her...
     
                    ELENA  
               (Smiling) 
          One or two. Bur there're not all that 
          many Salvatores. 
               (SALVATORE also smiles, 
               but a puzzled smile as if 
               what she has said had 
               thrown him off-guard.) 
          I've got a son, too...he's older. 
          And you, do you have children? 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          No. And I'm not married. 
               (ELENA sits there in 
               silence. A veil of sadness 
               clouds her eyes. 
               SALVATORE'S 
               too...) 
          Are you happy? 
     
                    ELENA  
          All things considered, yes. Even if 
          it wasn't what I dreamt of then...
     
     Again SALVATORE is thrown off-guard, as if the round key of 
     his enquiry had met with only square locks. She continues.
      
                    ELENA  
          My husband...you know him. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Sure, sure! Boccia...
               (With a bitter smile) 
          What's he do? 
     
                    ELENA  
          Politics. He's the district 
          representative. We met at the 
          University in Pisa. 
     
     Then instinctively, in a shy voice, SALVATORE asks the question 
     that he probably wouldn't have asked a moment later.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          And...how come you never married 
          that guy from Tuscany? 
     
     The white foam of the waves splashes up over the wall of the pier, dashing 
     against the car windows. The shadow of the trickling water is superimposed on 
     the agony of their faces. ELENA hides her embarrassment beneath a faint but 
     haughty smile.
     
                    ELENA  
          I didn't want to...I had to fight 
          tooth and nail. But in the end I 
          won...
               (SALVATORE is unable to 
               smile. It's as if the void 
               were growing and swelling 
               within. Thunder and 
               lightning shatter the 
               roaring of the wind and 
               sea, hut it does not rain. 
               Now her smile Jades away.)
          At that time...I was waiting for 
          you...
     
     There is no resentment in her words. She has said them fondly. With the serenity 
     of someone who has suffered greatly and then found a strong convincing way of 
     suffering no more. For SALVATORE, it's as if one of those thunderbolts had 
     pierced his heart. He leans over, gazing into her shining eyes. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          But I've never forgotten you, Elena! 
     
                    ELENA  
               (Whispering) 
          Nor have I. Even though you 
          disappeared...
               (SALVATORE is staggered, 
               feels as if he were 
               plunging into the void. 
               What she has said strikes 
               him as grotesque. ELENA 
               strokes his hair, as if to 
               restrain his sinking 
               heart, gives a sweet 
               smile.) 
          But what's the point of talking about 
          it? We risk being pathetic and 
          ridiculous. 
               (And she tries to change 
               the subject.) 
          You still live in Rome? 
     
     But SALVATORE ignores the question. He doesn't want to change the subject. 
     He feels that everything is crumbling inside him, the alibis and excuses he had 
     had to give himself in order to accept the end of their romance. And instead, 
     now the tables seem to have completely turned. Without realizing, he shouts 
     desperately, staring wildly at her and shaking her by the 
     shoulders.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          What do you mean, you were waiting 
          for me?! What are you saying? 
               (He controls himself at 
               once, continues, breathing 
               heavily.) 
          The last time we saw each other, we 
          made a date to meet at the Cinema 
          Paradiso. You remember? And you 
          didn't come, you disappeared without 
          leaving a trace, nothing! I'll tell 
          you how many years have gone by: more 
          than thirty!!! 
     
     Quiet rears stream down Elena's face, glisten with the reflections of the 
     lightning and the waves.
     
                    ELENA  
          I kept that date. 
               (SALVATORE laughs at the 
               absurdity of it. A 
               nervous, heartbroken 
               laugh, which slowly melts 
               away as she goes on to 
               say:) 
          But I was late...
               (Tears continue to stream 
               out of her blue eyes, but 
               she tells her story in a 
               calm voice.) 
          I had a fight with my family. I tried 
          to convince them again that they 
          couldn't separate us. But it was 
          futile. They had decided to leave 
          Sicily once and for all. Which is 
          what we did. I didn't know what to do 
          any more, what to say. And I said 
          yes, I'd do whatever they wanted. In 
          return, my father promised to let me 
          see you one last time, to say 
          goodbye. But I hoped that by seeing 
          each other we could take advantage of 
          it and make a decision...I thought 
          we would run away together. 
               (She holds back her sobs. 
               Dries her tears with the 
               back of her hand, and 
               continues:) 
          My father drove me to the movie 
          theatre. But you weren't in the 
          projection booth. Only Alfredo...
     
     Her voice continues over the scene of same thirty years before...
     
     115  CINEMA PARADISO. PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. AFTERNOON Flashback. 
     
                    ELENA'S VOICE  
               (Off-screen) 
          And I didn't have time to wait for 
          you to comeback... 
     
     From the bottom of the spiral staircase, ELENA'S FATHER is waiting nervously, 
     yells up at the projection booth.
     
                    ELENA' S FATHER  
          Elena! Hurry up!! 
     
                    YOUNG ELENA  
          All right, Daddy!...
     
     In the projection booth, ALFREDO is sitting on a stool, near the
     projector. Seen from the rear, the YOUNG ELENA is leaning over 
     beside him, she is excited, her eyes are red and swollen with tears.
     
                    ELENA'S VOICE  
               (Off-screen) 
          So I told Alfredo how things stood 
          and fiat I was leaving the same 
          evening, and I asked him to tell you 
          everything. He was very kind, he 
          listened carefully, then... 
     
     ALFREDO answers YOUNG ELENA, stroking her hair.
     
                    ALFREDO  
          Easy, easy. 
               (Sighing) 
          Listen carefully to what I have to 
          say. If you want me to tell Toto what 
          you've told me, I will. But if you 
          want my advice, forget it. It's 
          better for both of you if you don't 
          see each other...
               (YOUNG ELENA gives a start 
               of resentment, listens 
               with surprise.) 
          Dear girl, fire always turns into 
          ashes! Even the deepest love ends 
          sooner or later. And after that other 
          loves appear, lots of them. Toto, he 
          can't understand fiat now. If I tell 
          him he won't believe it, he' d be 
          capable of killing me...But you can 
          understand, you've got to 
          understand...Do it for him! 
     
     116  WATERFRONT. INT. CAR. EVENING 
     
     SALVATORE sits there without moving, pale as a sheet, looks as if he had
     grown even older. As if the whole world has fallen in on him. For ELENA, it was 
     a painful but liberating story. She dries her last tears. 
     
                    ELENA  
          It's the first time I've had to 
          chance to tell the story. I never 
          mentioned it to anybody. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
               (In a daze) 
          Alfredo, damn him! He cast his spell 
          on you too! 
     
                    ELENA  
          I told him I'd take his advice. But 
          before I went away I left you that 
          note...
               (SALVATORE gives her a 
               quick look, a questioning 
               look. He listens.) 
          I was on my way down the stairs...
               (Her voice continues, laid 
               over the...) 
     
     117  CINEMA PARADISO. PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. AFTERNOON Flashback
     
     ELENA has already said goodbye to ALFREDO, is on her way down the stairs, but 
     stops short. 
     
                    ELENA' S VOICE  
               (Off-screen) 
          I thought Alfredo couldn't see me. So 
          I snuck back up...
               (She tip-toes back without 
               making any noise. Goes 
               over to the film-winder. 
               Takes out a pen, looks for 
               a scrap of paper, but 
               doesn't see any. Her eyes 
               fall on the film receipts 
               hanging on the nail. She 
               tears off the top one, 
               turns it over and 
               scribbles a message on the 
               back.) 
          I wrote you where you could find me, 
          and that I'd wait for you. 
     
     She hangs the scrap of paper back on the nail, well in sight. She creeps out, 
     glancing at ALFREDO, who hasn't noticed a thing.
     
     118  WATERFRONT. EXT/INT. CAR. EVENING 
     
     ELENA finishes telling her story. She heaves a Jeep sigh. 
     
                    ELENA  
          But you disappeared all the same. 
     
     There is a haunted look in SALVATORE's eyes, he is searching his memory for 
     something he can't find, then suddenly sees, as if in a dream...his hand thirty 
     years before going through the routine gesture of hanging a receipt on the nail, 
     over the others, mechanically, without even looking...and he shuts his eyes as 
     if fearing the truth. Her last words have wounded him. He shakes his head, then 
     in a faint voice:
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Oh, how I looked for you, Elena! 
          You'll never know. I wrote, 
          telephoned, nothing. Nobody ever 
          answered. But I dreamt of you for 
          years! That's why I went away...and 
          never came back here. 
               (And his anguish breaks 
               free, dissolving into 
               quiet, almost childish 
               tears. ELENA is startled 
               by his reaction. She 
               caresses him,      
               passionately. They embrace 
               and remain like that, she 
               with her face buried in 
               his shoulder, he leaning 
               on hers with his tear-
               filled eyes.)
          Even as the years passed, in all the 
          women I met, I was only looking for 
          you. I had success it's true, but 
          there was always something missing...
               (She is deeply moved, goes 
               on caressing him gently 
               until he calms down. The 
               car windows are steamed 
               up. The sea, the harbor, 
               the waves have      
               disappeared. Nothing 
               remains but the sound of  
               the storm. SALVATORE takes 
               her face between his 
               hands. They gaze at each 
               other, their faces 
               practically touching. He 
               murmurs:) 
          I'd never have imagined that all this 
          had to end because of the man who was 
          like a father to me. A crazy lunatic!  
               (She gives a faint smile.) 
     
                    ELENA  
          He wasn't crazy. In the beginning I 
          was upset. I think I really hated 
          him. But then, with time, I 
          understood what he said...and your 
          silence too. 
     
     SALVATORE whispers one last dreadful revelation. And it's as if he had got a 
     terrible weight off his chest.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          But I never saw that note! 
               (He squints, as if to 
               stress the absurdity of 
               the idea.) 
          I must have covered it with my hand, 
          without realizing it, that's the only 
          explanation...
               (But strangely enough, 
               ELENA is not surprised.) 
     
                    ELENA  
          What difference does it make to find 
          an explanation? That's the way it 
          went. But Alfredo didn't betray you, 
          he was the only one who really 
          understood you. Salvatore, if you had 
          chosen to be with me, you'd have 
          never made your films. And that would 
          have been a pity! Because they're 
          wonderful, I've seen them all. 
               (Her eyes glitter with 
               joy, then she smiles, 
               almost ironically.) 
          But you shouldn't have gone and 
          changed your name. You should have 
          kept your own. 
     
     Tears stream down Salvatore's cheeks. He gives her a look of longing, of 
     desire. 
     
     ELENA embraces him. They kiss with heartrending tenderness, with the same 
     passion of their first kiss amidst the strips of film brushing their faces, so 
     many years ago. And they make love, clasped in the cramped quarters of the car, 
     like two teenagers. Passionate kisses, embraces, deep sighs. Their hair 
     damp with sweat, their hands clasping, their fingers interweaving. Then the 
     frenzy subsides into a deep, tumultuous pleasure, of immense loving and immense 
     grief...As outside the wind and the waves go on rating around that car which 
     seems suspended in empty space.) 
     
      
     119  ALFREDO'S WIDOW'S HOUSE. INT. DAY 
     
     SIGNORA ANNA'S hands place an old wooden stool and a rusty round 
     metal can on the table.
     
                    ANNA  
          These are the things he left to 
          you...
     
     SALVATORE is sitting by the table. He has finished the cup of coffee SIGNORA 
     ANNA has prepared for him. He picks up the stool, recognizes it at once: it's 
     the one ALFREDO had made for him as a little boy so he could climb up and put 
     the reels on the projector. 
     
                    ANNA  
          When they showed your films on 
          television, he was happy. He'd plop 
          himself down there and all his 
          ailments were forgotten. He knew all 
          the words by heart, every one, and 
          I'd describe what was going on. And 
          when the papers talked about 
          you, I had to read them two or three 
          times...
     
     SALVATORE examines the can, wonders what it can be. He opens it: inside is a 
     reel of film, wrapped in a plastic bag, well preserved. Those objects bring a 
     pang to his heart, and the things that ANNA said, but he feels disappointed, as 
     if he expected to find something else.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Did he ever think of meeting me? 
     
                    ANNA  
          No, never! One time your mother said 
          that if he wanted, you'd have surely 
          come. He got furious and said  'No, 
          Toto mustn't come back to Giancaldo, 
          never!!' He didn't say it to be mean. 
          He was a decent man. Who knows what 
          he could have been thinking? Towards 
          the end he'd say such strange things. 
          And a moment before he shut his eyes, 
          he told your mother not to let you 
          know. 
     
     120  CINEMA PARADISO. PROJECTION BOOTH. INT. DAY 
     
     A cloud of yellowed scraps of paper flutters into the air and as it falls slowly 
     to the ground another handful is flung up. SALVATORE is in the projection booth, 
     looking through the countless yellowed receipts, stuffed away in boxes. He looks 
     at them one by one, then throws them into the air. A desperate search, almost a 
     defiance of the passing of time. He continues with greater determination, flings 
     piles of receipts into the air, glances at a few dates, a film title, tries to 
     discover the oldest dates at the bottom. He moves swiftly, his hands plunge in, 
     then fling up a nimbus of paper and dust. But to no avail...He stops, short of 
     breath. His eyes go over to the nails in the wall, where other stacks of 
     receipts are hanging. He gets up and goes to look at them, thumbs " it through 
     them hastily, in anger... 
     
     He yanks off two or three packs, which come off, nail and all. Only then does he 
     notice that at the bottom of those blocks of yellowed paper, there are same more 
     sheets, much older, almost brown. His eyes concentrate on the mildewed scraps of 
     paper. He leans over, picks themup and goes through them one by one, delicately, 
     because they crumble in his fingers...And then all of a sudden, some film 
     titles 
     he recognizes from that time. He goes on thumbing through them, and all at once 
     an astonished look appears on his face  in his hands is a receipt that has been 
     turned over. It's the one! The message scribbled on it can still be seen. He 
     reads it. 
     
                    SALVATORE'S VOICE  
               (Off-screen) 
          Salvatore, forgive me. I'll explain 
          later what happened. Not finding you 
          here was terrible. Unfortunately, 
          this evening, my mother and I are 
          leaving for Tuscany. We're moving 
          there. But you' re the only one I 
          love, I'll never be with anybody 
          else, I promise. Here's the address 
          of a girlfriend of mine where you 
          can write to me. Don't abandon me. 
          Love and kisses, Elena. 
     
     He clasps the scrap of paper, and his brimming eyes darken with regret.
     
     121  CAFÉ~ IN SQUARE AND ELENA'S HOUSE. INT/EXT. DAY 
     
     ELENA stands near the window overlooking the little square, listening on the 
     phone to SALVATORE'S voice. She can see him through the transparent curtain 
     speaking on the phone down below in the café. 
     
                    ELENA  
          When are you leaving? 
     
     SALVATORE opens his eyes, tosses away his cigarette.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          This afternoon. Elena, in the future 
          maybe we could...
     
     ELENA interrupts him, speaks softly, tenderly.
     
                    ELENA  
          No, Salvatore...there is no future. 
          There's only the past. Even meeting 
          last night was nothing but a dream, a 
          beautiful dream. 
               (Smiling) 
          We never did it when we were kids, 
          remember? 
               (Down in the cafe, 
               SALVATORE nods his head 
               slowly, desperately.) 
          Now that it's happened, I don't think 
          there could have been a better 
          ending.
               (It's farewell. SALVATORE 
               glances one last time at 
               that window.) 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          I'll never agree with you. Never, 
          Elena. 
     
     122  CINEMA PARADISO. EXT. DAY 
     
     The square, unusually empty. There is no one, and no cars and motorcycles are 
     parked in the middle. The stores are shut. And there is an unreal silence. The 
     houses on the two streets on either side of the theatre are covered by enormous 
     pieces of gray canvas. 
     
     Only now does the camera discover in the distance, a crowd of curious onlookers 
     waiting in front of the movie house, kept at a safe distance by firemen and 
     policemen. Old SPACCAFICO is in the crowd. SALVATORE is also there. Be gazes at 
     the front of the old movie theatre...
     
     123  CINEMA PARADISO. INT. DAY 
     
     The inside of the theatre, completely empty...All of a sudden, a blinding flash 
     and...
     
     124  SQUARE AND CINEMA PARADISO. EXT. DAY 
     
     ...a deafening roar rends the air, accompanied by a surge of amazement in the 
     crowd. And the Cinema Paradiso suddenly collapses, folds inward and disappears 
     for ever in a gigantic cloud of white smoke that rises into the air, carried by 
     the wind towards the crowd...
     
     125  ELENA' S HOUSE. INT. DAY 
     
     The echo of the explosion is also heard in ELENA'S house. She is alone. 
     And the bang distresses her, as if something had burst inside her. From her face 
     to...
     
     126  SQUARE AND CINEMA PARADISO. EXT. DAY 
     
     SALVATORE's face, stiff, unmoving, his eyes fixed on those falling ruins, on 
     that season of his life turning into smoke and dust. Enveloped in the white 
     cloud, SPACCAFICO stands crying in silence. 
     
     Mice dart out of the ruins in terror, scamper nervously into the square. A group 
     of youngsters scream, amused and excited. Among them, ELENA'S DAUGHTER, 
     smiling... SALVATORE sees her joking with friends and pointing to some boys  
     chasing the mice across the square, hooting and laughing. As a white-haired OLD 
     TRAMP, filthy and covered in rags, makes his way through the crowd. There is an 
     empty look in his eyes and he repeats obsessively in a low voice:
     
                    VILLAGE IDIOT  
          The square's mine, the square's mine, 
          the square's mine... 
     
     SALVATORE recognizes him, it's the VILLAGE IDIOT, the one who used to close down 
     the square at night. Be watches him walk off, raving, with nobody even noticing. 
     The crowd now moves over to the huge empty space where the movie house once 
     stood. The murmuring voices are drowned out by the deafening roar of an 
     airplane. From the ruins of the Cinema Paradiso, fade to...
     
     127  ROME. STUDIO VIEWING-ROOM. INT. DAY 
     
     ...SALVATORE'S hands giving a STUDIO PROJECTIONIST the rusty metal can left him 
     by ALFREDO. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Please check the splices. As soon as 
          you're ready you can start. 
     
                    PROJECTIONIST  
          OK. Congratulations on your film. 
          It's terrific. 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Thanks. 
     
     A COLLEAGUE of SALVATORE comes up behind him.
     
                    SALVATORE  
          Well? 
     
                    COLLEAGUE  
          The distributor is opening up the 
          film earlier. The press conference is 
          in the afternoon. The actors will 
          also be there, the producer, just 
          about everyone. 
     
     An ASSISTANT comes up to them.
     
                    ASSISTANT  
          The official notification of the 
          award just came out, but we've 
          already received a mountain of 
          telegrams. Aren't you happy? 
     
                    SALVATORE  
          It's all right. We'll talk about it 
          later. 
     
     SALVATORE walks off towards the viewing theatre. 
     
     SALVATORE is by himself in the small viewing theatre. Now the lights go down. 
     The beam of light shines out of the little square hole of the projection booth 
     and the screen lights up. A number trailer goes by and then SALVATORE sees the 
     first shots. 
     
     A start of intense amazement and joy suddenly runs through him, astounds him, 
     delights him. It's the best piece of film he has ever seen...  
     
     It consists of all the kisses ALFREDO cut out of the films and kept for him, 
     when he was a little boy. They have been spliced together, one , after the 
     other, at random, same of them even upside down. And yet it looks like a first-
     rate editing job. 
     
     In rapid sequence the passionate kisses between actors and actresses, names 
     famous and names unknown in the history of movies. Greta Garbo, Gary Cooper, 
     Alida Valii, Rudolph Valentino, Ingrid Bergman, Clark Gable, Anna Magnani, 
     Humphrey Bogart, Marlene Dietrich, Amedeo Nazzari, Luisa Ferida, Vittorio De 
     Sica, Rita Hayworth, Tyrone Power, Doris Durante, Massimo Gironi, Marta Abba, 
     Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, Assia Noris...
     
     A whole movie season summed up in a few fragments, a few seconds. A bizarre, 
     poignant, melancholy parade. 
     
     SALVATORE is overwhelmed, moved to tears. It is the most profound act of love he 
     has ever seen. He laughs as tears shine in his eyes. Up on the screen, another 
     kiss, the last kiss marking the happy ending of a film. And the age-old words 
     appear 'THE END'.               
                    
     
     



