In 1930s West Virginia, along the Ohio River, Ben Harper is sentenced to hang for his part in a robbery in which two men were killed.
Before he is caught he hides the stolen money, trusting only his son John with the money's location.
John has a much younger sister, Pearl.
Reverend Harry Powell, a serial killer and self-appointed preacher with the two words "LOVE" and "HATE" tattooed across the knuckles of his right and left hands, shares a prison cell with Harper.
He tries to get Harper to tell him where he hid the money before his execution, but the only clue he gets is a Bible verse Harper mutters in his sleep: "And a little child shall lead them."

Convinced that Harper told his children the secret, Powell woos and marries Harper's widow, Willa.
Willa does not know her new husband's motive and believes her marriage will lead to her salvation.
Powell asks the children about the money when they are alone, but they reveal nothing.
John is suspicious of Powell and protective of his sister.
One night Willa overhears her husband questioning the children and she realizes the truth.
As she lies in bed that night in their attic bedroom, Powell leans over her and slits her throat.

Powell dumps Willa's body in the river.
He finally discovers the money's location from Pearl by threatening John.
However, just when he learns the location of the money, the children manage to flee with it down the river by momentarily incapacitating Powell after John knocks him on the head.
They eventually find sanctuary with Rachel Cooper, a tough old woman who looks after stray children.
Powell eventually tracks them down, but Rachel sees through his false virtue.
Rachel declares that "children are man at his strongest.
They abide."
After a climactic standoff, in which Rachel protects the children with a shotgun but sings hymns through the night with Powell, he is arrested by the police, tried, and, apparently, convicted and sentenced to death for the murder of Willa and for the crimes against the children.

Rachel proclaims finally regarding children in general, "They abide and they endure."