Willard Stiles (Crispin Glover) is a social misfit taking care of his ill and fragile but verbally abusive mother Henrietta (Jackie Burroughs) in a musty old mansion that is also home to a colony of rats.
Willard finds himself constantly humiliated in front of his co-workers by his cruel boss, Frank Martin (R. Lee Ermey), a vicious man who assumed control of the company of Willard's father upon his death, and whose professional interest in Willard extends to a personal financial one.
A co-worker, Cathryn (Laura Elena Harring), has sympathy for the quirky Willard.
[2] Cathryn becomes Willard's friend and love interest.

Willard quickly becomes obsessed with his friendship with a rat he names Socrates.
Willard then begins to train and befriend the other rats including an extra large one he calls Ben.
Ben begins to assume a position of "leadership" among the other rats, while Socrates remains Willard's favorite.
Willard's mother panics when she overhears the rats and later dies by falling down the stairs of the basement.
Willard learns soon afterward that payments on the house have fallen far behind, and that the bank will likely foreclose upon the property.
Willard then says that Socrates is all he has left.

Cathryn stops by and gives Willard a house-trained cat named Sculley, he sets the cat inside and leaves.
The rats, led by Ben, attack and kill Sculley.
When Willard arrives home he notices Ben watching him evilly; Willard begins to distrust Ben thereafter.

Desperately lonely, Willard begins to bring Socrates to work with him.
Willard finds a note at his desk declaring that he's being fired by Frank Martin from the company his father founded.
While he's arguing with Martin, begging not to be fired, Socrates is discovered by a coworker in the supply room.
Her screams alert Martin who bludgeons Socrates to death.
Willard, his mental state already precarious, is devastated.
Willard turns to Ben, who is more than willing to guide the army of basement rats to help Willard avenge himself upon his boss.
Willard and his basement rats confront Martin, and upon Willard's command they swarm Martin and tear him apart.

Willard, however, mistrusts Ben and attempts to dispose of him and the other rats.
He succeeds in killing some, but Ben remains, and turns the remaining rat army against Willard.
Willard barely escapes with his life, and kills Ben.
But an epilogue reveals that he has retreated into a semi-catatonic state and been placed in a mental institution.
There he finds a new white rat, which looks like Socrates and he believes is the rebirth of his one friend.
In the end Willard beckons the rat over to him and says "It's not over yet, no!
Our time is going to come."