Clarence Worley watches a Sonny Chiba triple feature at a Detroit movie theater on his birthday where he meets Alabama Whitman.
They go to a diner and flirt with each other.
At Clarence's apartment they have sex.
She confesses that she is a call girl hired by Clarence's boss as his birthday present.
Each claims to have fallen in love and they marry.

Clarence visits Alabama's pimp, Drexl Spivey, who makes Clarence uneasy.
An apparition of Elvis Presley tells him that killing Drexl will make the world a better place.
Clarence tells Drexl that he has married Alabama and she has no additional business with him.
Drexl and Clarence fight, Clarence draws a gun and kills Drexl.
He grabs a bag that he assumes belongs to Alabama.
When he tells Alabama he killed Drexl, she sobs and finds this "so romantic".
They open the suitcase, and find it is full of cocaine.
Clarence and Alabama decide to leave for California immediately.
First they pay a visit to Clarence's estranged father, Clifford Worley, a former cop.
Clifford tells Clarence that the police assume Drexl's murder is a drug-related killing.

In Los Angeles, the young couple plan to meet Clarence's old friend, Dick Ritchie, an aspiring actor.
Back in Detroit, Clifford is confronted in his home by gangster Vincenzo Coccotti, who wants the drugs taken from Drexl.
Clifford refuses to reveal where his son has gone.
Accepting that he is going to die anyway, he insults Coccotti by claiming that Sicilians are "niggers" descended from the Moors.
Coccotti shoots Clifford in the head and then finds a note on the fridge giving Clarence's address in L.A.

Clarence plans to use Ritchie's contacts with an actor named Elliot Blitzer to sell the drugs to film producer Lee Donowitz.
Elliot, who has some of the cocaine, is stopped for speeding and is arrested for drug possession.
Believing Clarence's story of getting the drugs from a dirty cop, he informs on Donowitz.

Alabama is found in the motel room and brutally interrogated by Coccotti's henchman, Virgil.
In the subsequent fight, Alabama kills Virgil.
She and Clarence talk of moving to Cancún with the money from the drug deal.
Knowing that the cocaine was uncut, and with Elliot "confessing" in order to avoid prison, detectives Nicholson and Dimes conclude that a sizable drug deal is about to go down.
Promising him that he can avoid prison in return for cooperation, the two detectives have Elliot wear a wire.
Coccotti's men learn where the deal is going down from Ritchie's roommate, Floyd.

Clarence, Alabama, Ritchie, and Elliot, with the drugs, visit Donowitz's suite at the Ambassador Hotel.
In the elevator, Clarence confronts Elliot at gunpoint, thinking that Elliot is trying to set him up.
But Elliot reassures Clarence that there is no setup.
Clarence makes a good impression on Donowitz, then excuses himself to the bathroom, where he has another conversation with Elvis.
Meanwhile, Donowitz and his bodyguards are ambushed by both the cops and gangsters who break in at almost the same time.
Realizing that Elliot is an informant, Donowitz throws a pot of coffee on him.
Nicholson then shoots Donowitz, and a shootout begins.
Ritchie abandons the drugs and flees.
Almost everyone is killed in the crossfire.
Clarence is shot as he exits the bathroom.
Dimes, who survived the shoot-out, kills one of Donowitz's wounded bodyguards for shooting Nicholson.
Alabama then shoots Dimes.
Clarence is alive but loses an eye.
They escape with Donowitz's money while more police set a perimeter around the hotel.
Clarence and Alabama are shown on a beach in Cancún, with their son, Elvis.