In March 1975, biological warfare between the People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union kills most of the world's population.
U.S. Army Col. Robert Neville, M.D.
(Charlton Heston), a scientist based in Los Angeles, California, begins to succumb to the ensuing plague but manages to inject himself with an experimental vaccine just in time, rendering himself immune.
Meanwhile, the plague's surviving victims in Los Angeles, join together as "The Family," a cult of crazed nocturnal albino mutants who seek to destroy all technology due to science being the instrument of humanity's downfall.

Two years later in August 1977, Neville believes he is the plague's only survivor.
Struggling to maintain his sanity, he spends his days patrolling the deserted city, hunting and destroying members of the Family in the near impossible task of locating their headquarters alone in the massive city of Los Angeles, hoping to end their threat once and for all.
At night, living atop a fortified apartment building equipped with an arsenal of weaponry, he is a prisoner in his own home.
The Family wants to kill him, believing him to be a last remnant of the old culture.

One day, as Neville is in a department store helping himself to new clothing, he spots a woman who quickly runs away.
He chases her into an overgrown park, but later decides he is seeing things and dismisses the sighting.

On another day, the Family finally captures Neville.
After a summary trial he is found guilty of heresy by Jonathan Matthias (Anthony Zerbe), a former news anchor who is now leader of the Family.
Neville is sentenced to death and nearly burned at the stake in Dodger Stadium.
He is rescued by Lisa (Rosalind Cash), the woman he had earlier dismissed as a hallucination, and Dutch (Paul Koslo), a former medical student familiar with Neville's work.

Lisa and Dutch are part of a group of survivors, some of whom are young children.
Although infected, their youth has given them some resistance to the disease and its symptoms are slow to manifest.
Nevertheless, given enough time, they will succumb to mutation.
Neville realizes that even if it is possible to duplicate the original vaccine, it would take years to salvage humanity.
However, he believes it may be possible to extend his immunity to others by creating a serum from his own body.

Neville, Lisa, and Lisa's teenage brother Richie (Eric Laneuville) return to Neville's apartment where they begin treating Richie who is succumbing to the disease.
Neville and Lisa become romantic just as the generator runs out of fuel and the lights go off.
The Family decides to attack, sending Brother Zachary (Lincoln Kilpatrick) to climb up the outside of Neville's apartment building to the open balcony.
Neville leaves Lisa upstairs as he goes to the basement garage to restart the generator.
Neville returns to the living quarters to find Brother Zachary right behind an unsuspecting Lisa.
Neville shoots him and he falls back out the window to his death, dropping his spear on the balcony as he goes.

If the serum works, Neville and Lisa plan to leave the ravaged city with the rest of the survivors and start a new life in the wilderness, leaving the Family behind to die.
Neville is successful in creating the serum and administers it to Richie.
Once cured, Richie reveals the location of The Family's headquarters to Neville during a disagreement, insisting that members of the Family are also human, and insisting that Neville's cure can be administered to them as well.
Richie, at odds with Neville's shoot first and ask questions later approach towards Matthias and his followers, goes to the Family to try to convince them to take the serum.
Matthias refuses to believe that Neville would try to help them, accuses Richie of being sent to spy on them and has him executed.
Neville discovers Richie’s body and, enraged, he fights off the Family after they force his car off the road.

Meanwhile, Lisa quickly and unexpectedly changes into a mutant and betrays Neville by giving the Family access to his apartment.
Returning home, Neville reluctantly tells Lisa about Richie's death, but she already knows, having allowed Matthias and his followers access to Neville's quarters.
Matthias, who finally has the upper hand, forces Neville to watch as the Family sets his home and equipment on fire.
Neville breaks free and, once outside with Lisa, he turns and raises his sub-machine gun to shoot Matthias, who is looking down from the balcony.
The gun jams, giving Matthias enough time to hurl Brother Zachery's spear at Neville, mortally wounding him.
The final scene shows the human survivors, led by Dutch, departing in a Land Rover.
They discover a dying Neville lying in a fountain, who hands Dutch a flask of blood serum, presumably with which to restore humanity, shortly after which Neville dies from blood loss.
Dutch takes Lisa and the survivors away as they leave the city for good.