Renai and Josh Lambert have recently moved into a new home with their three children.
One morning, Renai looks through a family photo album with her young son, Dalton, who asks why there are no pictures of Josh as a child.
Renai reasons that Josh dislikes having his picture taken.
Later, Dalton goes to investigate noises in the attic and falls down a broken ladder.
The next day, he falls into a mysterious coma, with doctors being unable to give any explanation as to why.

Three months later, Dalton, still trapped in the coma, is moved back home.
Disturbing supernatural events begin to occur, as Dalton's younger brother Foster claims that he doesn't like it when Dalton "walks around at night".
After being attacked by a spectral figure one night, Renai convinces a skeptical Josh that the family should move, as she believes their house is haunted.

In the new house, the supernatural events resume, with Renai encountering the ghost of a little boy that runs around the home laughing.
Josh's mother, Lorraine, visits one day and claims that she had a dream about a shadowy figure in Dalton's room and when asked what it wanted it responded "Dalton".
Suddenly, Lorraine sees a monstrous, red-faced figure behind Josh and loud banging noises is heard as Dalton's bedroom is then ransacked by supernatural forces.
Lorraine contacts a friend, Elise Reiner, who specializes in the investigation of paranormal activity.
Elise enters Dalton's room and sees something on the ceiling, to which her assistant Specs draws a dark, demonic figure with a red face and hollow eyes; the same figure from Lorraine's dream.

Elise sits with the family and explains that Dalton isn't in a coma, but that he has the ability of astral projection.
His spiritual body has become trapped in "The Further" – a place where tormented souls of the dead are condemned into eternal darkness.
While Dalton's spirit is in this other world, his physical body is left as an empty vessel.
The tormented souls in The Further and the demonic figure are all attempting to take over Dalton's lifeless body.

They run a session to try to communicate with Dalton, which results with the family and Elise's team being attacked by spirits and the demon.
Elise and Lorraine reveal that Josh also holds the ability to astral project.
As a child, he was terrorized by the parasitic spirit of an old woman who wanted to possess his body.
This old woman would appear in every photo taken of Josh as a child, leading to his disdain for having his picture taken.
Elise had helped Josh forget about his ability to astral project, but now suggests that Josh use his ability to find and return Dalton's soul.
She places Josh in a trance and he is able to project his spirit body into the shadowy world of The Further.
After encountering various spirits, Josh enters the demon's lair and discovers Dalton chained to the floor.

He sets Dalton free but the two are discovered and attacked by the demon.
In the real world, the spirits of The Further begin to cross over, seeking to take hold of Dalton and Josh's bodies.
Josh leaves his son to confront the spirit of the old woman, while Dalton flees from the demon.
Moments later, Josh and Dalton both awaken in the real world and all of the spirits vanish.
The family is now happily reunited; however, Elise senses something sinister and takes a picture of Josh.
He promptly goes into a barbaric rage and strangles Elise to death.
Renai comes in to find Elise dead and Josh gone.
She checks Elise's camera and sees a picture of the old woman in Josh's place, implying that she has possessed Josh's body.

In a post-credits scene, the old woman (that possessed Josh) is seen blowing out a candle, making the screen in total darkness, just as the film ends.