The film begins in a Los Angeles diner where a waitress named Slim (Jennifer Lopez) works with her best friend, Ginny (Juliette Lewis).
She receives romantic advances from a customer who teases her about her name, and she reveals that "Slim" isn't her actual name.
She is rescued by a man named Mitch Hiller (Billy Campbell), who "stops" the man from coming on to her.
Slim falls in love with Mitch, they marry and have a child named Gracie (Tessa Allen).
However, Slim finds out Mitch has been cheating on her with a woman named Darcelle.
She confronts him and he admits it, while also insisting Darcelle means nothing to him.
Slim becomes angry and threatens to leave, enraging Mitch who becomes violent, slapping and punching her in the face.
He warns her, telling Slim that he makes the money and gets to whatever he likes, implying he wants an open marriage.
Mitch refuses to stop his affair unless she wants to fight him.
He stops her attempts to call his mother.
When Slim does confide in Mitch's mother (Janet Carroll), she asks her what she did to make Mitch angry, implying he has a history of physical abuse.
Ginny advises Slim to leave Mitch, but Slim doesn't want to hurt Gracie.
She then goes to pick up Gracie from school to discover Mitch had already picked her up.
Panicked that Mitch might have left town with her, she calls Mitch, who tells her that he took Gracie to the zoo.

That night, during dinner, Mitch further insults Slim for confiding in his mother, while staying civil in front of Gracie.
Having had enough, Slim plans to escape.
However, while escaping late at night, Mitch foils her by grabbing her by the hair.
He throws her to the ground and begins kicking her in the chest, while Gracie is asleep on the sofa.
Luckily, Slim had her friends outside the house.
They break in and Mitch threatens them with a gun, before Phil (Christopher Maher) picks up Gracie to use as a shield while exhorting her to look at her father.
Unable to shoot the man with Gracie watching him, Mitch lets Slim escape.
Slim retreats to a cheap motel, having had her credit cards frozen by Mitch.
Slim goes on the run to Seattle where she briefly stays with her old boyfriend Joe (Dan Futterman), before some of Mitch's friends disguised as FBI agents investigating a kidnapping show up at Joe's house.
She leaves Joe behind and in need of money, goes to her father (Fred Ward).
The man, named Jupiter, claims that Slim is not his daughter and gives them only $12, thinking they are homeless and want money.
Slim leaves, hardhearted at Jupiter, and moves with Gracie to Michigan.
However, after Jupiter is threatened by Mitch's men, he decides to help.
He sends them enough money for a house in his Buy Slim a House Fund.

In Michigan, Slim buys a house and changes her name to Erin Shleeter.
Although their future looks bright after a visit from Joe, Mitch tracks them down and attacks Slim.
This time, she is prepared, having pepper spray and an escape plan.
A car chase ensues between Slim and one of Mitch's friends (Noah Wyle, who had disguised himself as a love interest to Slim), while Gracie screams in the background.
Eventually, Slim goes into hiding in San Francisco, hires a woman who looks like her to keep her cover, and sends Gracie on vacation to Hawaii with her best friend to get her out of harm's way.
She prepares herself with self-defense trainer (Bruce A.
Young) who teaches her Krav Maga, since self-defense is not murder.
He tells her the hardest lesson - if he hits her, hold on to his voice and awaken when he is about to attack or kick her.
She returns to Los Angeles, breaks into Mitch's new home and traps him there, after hiding his guns and blocking the phone connections, so he cannot call the police.
When he says he cannot hit her, she asks him why he could do it before when she was defenseless.
In the ensuing fight Slim uses her new skills, beating Mitch badly.
She calls Ginny saying she cannot kill him, and while she is distracted Mitch hits her from behind with a lamp.
Slim repeats what she learned in her lessons and trips, beats and kicks him in the chest to send him off a balcony to his death.
She calls the police, who rule her actions as self-defense.

With Mitch no longer a threat, Slim and Gracie go on to live a happy life in Seattle with Joe.