An elderly inmate named Willie Long (Obba Babatundé) attends the burial of two friends who have recently died in an infirmary fire in a Mississippi prison.
He begins telling the two young inmates digging the graves (Heavy D and Bönz Malone) his friends' life story.

Ray Gibson (Eddie Murphy) and Claude Banks (Martin Lawrence) are two New Yorkers in 1932.
Ray is a small-time hustler and petty thief, and Claude, an honest man, has just been accepted for a job as a bank teller.
Ray picks Claude’s pocket and later on they both end up in debt to the club's owner, "Spanky" (Rick James).
Ray arranges for himself and Claude to do some boot-legging in order to pay off their debt.

From New York, they head south to Mississippi to purchase a car full of 'hooch'.
Later, a man is murdered outside of a juke joint by a small town sheriff, Pike.
Through a misunderstanding (and the sheriff's complicity), Ray and Claude are charged for the crime and sentenced to life in prison.
They are sent to an infamous prison camp called 'Camp 8', located at the Mississippi State Penitentiary.
[1]

Claude attempts to file an appeal but does not succeed.
Left with no chance of being released, Claude partners with Ray, who claims to have an escape plan.
Early in their incarceration, they simply try running away in the middle of the night, getting as far as Tallahatchie before being tracked down; they are sentenced to a week in solitary confinement.

During a dance social, Biscuit confides in Ray that he is going to be released; however, Biscuit did not want return to his family a gay man, so he committed suicide by running across the "firing line", which resulted in him being shot.
Jangle Leg (Bernie Mac) is allowed to walk past the line to retrieve his partners body.

Around 1944, they meet a mute inmate named 'Can't-Get-Right' (Woodbine) who happens to be a talented baseball player.
He catches the eye of a Negro League scout who indicates he can get him out of prison if he agrees to play baseball.
Ray and Claude, seeing it as a chance to get out of prison, tell the scout to put a word in for them as well (as they relate to 'Can't-Get-Right' in that they can coax him best to play) but to no avail.
After 'Can't-Get-Right' is released to play baseball for the Pittsburgh Crawfords, Ray devises an alternate way to escape but Claude wants no part of it.
Claude is upset with the fact that 'Can't-Get-Right' was released without them, this leads to an argument that results in Ray and Claude going their separate ways.
Ray and Claude don't speak to one another for 28 years (1944-1972).
During this time all the other inmates end up dying or being released from the prison.

Many years later, in 1972, Ray and Claude are now elderly and are sent to live and work at Superintendent Dexter Wilkins' (Ned Beatty) mansion.
Claude forms a friendship with Wilkins, and is later entrusted to drive and pick up the new superintendent (R. Lee Ermey), who happens to be none other than Sheriff Pike, the man who framed them 40 years earlier.

While on a hunt one day, Ray confronts Pike about the murder, leading to a standoff in which the sheriff admits to framing Ray and Claude.
Pike attempts to kill both Ray and Claude, but is shot and killed by Wilkins, who by this time realizes that Ray and Claude were actually framed and indeed innocent.
Wilkins covers up the facts of the killing by saying that he accidentally shot Pike while hunting.
He tells Ray and Claude he intends to write pardon papers for the two of them, but dies of a heart attack in his bathroom before he is able to do so.

In 1997 (present day), Ray and Claude are now very elderly and living in the prison's infirmary.
One day, Claude tells Ray of yet another plan he has devised, but Ray is skeptical.
On the same night, the infirmary catches fire and everyone makes it out safely except for Ray and Claude.

Willie concludes the tale by explaining Claude’s plan.
The two bodies being buried were actually taken from the morgue; Ray and Claude had planned to escape from the prison by hiding on the departing fire trucks.
When the workers ask why the plan didn't work, Willie tells them that he "never said it didn't work".
Willie wheels himself away, as the inmates realize that the bodies they buried are not Ray and Claude.

Ray and Claude are back in New York, at a New York Yankees baseball game.
The film concludes by revealing that the bad-luck buddies are on good terms with one another, living out the rest of their lives together in Harlem.