Hook-handed Vietnam veteran John "Four Leaf" Tayback's (Nick Nolte) memoir, Tropic Thunder, is being made into a film.
With the exception of newcomer supporting actor Kevin Sandusky (Jay Baruchel), the cast—fading action hero Tugg Speedman (Ben Stiller), five-time Academy Award-winning Australian method actor Kirk Lazarus (Robert Downey, Jr.), rapper Alpa Chino (Brandon T. Jackson), and drug-addicted comedian Jeff Portnoy (Jack Black)—behave unreasonably.
Rookie director Damien Cockburn (Steve Coogan) cannot control them during filming of a large war scene, and production is reported to be one month behind schedule.
Studio executive Les Grossman (Tom Cruise) orders Damien to get filming back on track, or risk its cancellation.

Acting on Four Leaf's advice, Damien drops the actors into the middle of the jungle, with hidden cameras and rigged special effects explosions to film "guerrilla-style".
The actors have guns that fire blanks, along with a map and scene listing that will lead to a helicopter waiting at the end of the route.
Unbeknownst to the actors and production, the group have been dropped in the middle of the Golden Triangle, the home of the heroin-producing Flaming Dragon gang.
Just as the group are about to set off, Damien inadvertently steps on an old landmine and is blown up, stunning the actors.
Tugg, believing Damien faked his death, persuades the others that Damien is alive and that they are still shooting the film.
Kirk is unconvinced but joins them in their trek through the jungle.

When Four Leaf and pyrotechnics operator Cody Underwood (Danny McBride) try to locate the dead director, they are captured by Flaming Dragon, at which point Four Leaf reveals that he fabricated his memoir and that he has hands.
As the actors continue through the jungle, Kirk and Kevin discover that Tugg is leading them in the wrong direction.
The four actors, tired of walking and hoping to be rescued, leave Tugg, who goes off by himself and is captured by Flaming Dragon.
Taken to their heroin factory, Tugg believes it is a POW camp from the script.
The gang discovers he is the star of their favorite film, the box office bomb Simple Jack, and force him to reenact it several times a day.
Meanwhile in Los Angeles, Tugg's agent Rick Peck (Matthew McConaughey) is trying to negotiate with Les an unfulfilled term in Tugg's contract that entitles him to a TiVo.
Flaming Dragon calls the two and demands a ransom for Tugg, but Les instead berates the gang.
Despite the threats, Les expresses no interest in rescuing Speedman and tries to convince Rick about the benefits of allowing Tugg to die and collecting the insurance.
Les also offers Rick a Gulfstream V and money in return for his cooperation.

Kirk, Alpa, Jeff, and Kevin discover Flaming Dragon's heroin factory.
After seeing Tugg being tortured, they plan a rescue attempt based on the film's script.
Kirk impersonates a farmer towing a captured Jeff on the back of a water buffalo, distracting the armed guards so Alpa and Kevin can locate the captives.
After the gang notices inconsistencies in Kirk's story, the actors open fire, temporarily subduing them.
When the gang realize they are being guarded by actors, they gather their guns and begin firing.
The four actors locate Tugg, Four Leaf, and Cody, and they cross a bridge rigged to explode to get to their helicopter.
Tugg asks to remain behind with the gang which he considers his family but quickly returns when Flaming Dragon fires in pursuit.
Four Leaf detonates the bridge allowing Tugg to reach safety, but as the helicopter takes off, the gang fires an RPG at the helicopter.
Rick unexpectedly stumbles out of the jungle carrying a TiVo box and throws it in the path of the RPG, saving them.
The crew return to Hollywood, where footage from the hidden cameras is compiled into a feature film, Tropic Blunder, which becomes a major critical and box office hit.
The film wins Tugg his first Academy Award, which Kirk presents to him at the ceremony.