While waiting at a bus stop, Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) begins telling his life story to strangers sitting near him on the bench.
His story begins with the leg braces he had to wear as a child, which resulted in him being bullied by other children.
He lives with his mother (Sally Field), who tells him that "stupid is as stupid does."
His mother runs a rooming house and Forrest teaches one of their guests, a young Elvis Presley (Peter Dobson), a hip-swinging dance.
On a bus for his first day of school, Forrest meets Jenny (Robin Wright), with whom he immediately falls in love, and they become best friends.
One day, while fleeing from some bullies, Forrest's leg braces break apart and fall away and he discovers that he can run very fast which, despite his below-average intelligence, earns him a scholarship to the University of Alabama from Bear Bryant.
While in college, he witnesses George Wallace's Stand in the Schoolhouse Door, is named an All-American football player, and meets President John F. Kennedy.

After graduating, Forrest enlists in the United States Army, where he befriends Benjamin Buford "Bubba" Blue (Mykelti Williamson), and they agree to go into the shrimping business together.
They are sent to Vietnam, and while on patrol, their platoon is ambushed.
Forrest saves four of the men in his platoon, including platoon leader 2nd Lt. Dan Taylor (Gary Sinise), but Bubba is killed.
Forrest himself is shot in the buttocks and receives the Medal of Honor from President Lyndon B. Johnson.
While recovering from his injuries Forrest meets Lt. Dan again, who has had both of his legs amputated above the knees due to his injuries.
He is furious at Forrest for leaving him a "cripple" and cheating him out of his destiny to die in battle like his ancestors.
In Washington, Forrest is swept up in an anti-war rally at the National Mall and is reunited with Jenny, who is now part of the hippie counterculture movement.
They spend the night walking around the capital, but she leaves with her abusive boyfriend the following day.

Forrest discovers an aptitude for ping pong and begins playing for the U.S. Army team, eventually competing against Chinese teams on a goodwill tour.
He goes to the White House again and meets President Richard Nixon who provides him a room at the Watergate hotel, where Forrest inadvertently helps expose the Watergate scandal.
For his numerous accomplishments, Forrest is invited onto The Dick Cavett Show alongside John Lennon, and helps inspire Lennon's song "Imagine".
He again encounters Lt. Dan, who is now an embittered drunk living on welfare.
Dan is scornful of Forrest's plans to enter the shrimping business and mockingly promises to be Forrest's first mate if he ever succeeds.
Meanwhile, Jenny is living life on the edge of self-destruction, having been with countless men and become addicted to heroin; on one occasion she contemplates suicide.

Forrest is discharged from the military and uses money from a ping pong endorsement to buy a shrimping boat, fulfilling his wartime promise to Bubba, and names it "Jenny".
Dan keeps his own promise and joins Forrest as first mate.
They initially have little luck, but after Hurricane Carmen destroys every other shrimping boat in the region, the Bubba Gump Shrimp Company becomes a huge success due to the elimination of competition.
Having had an epiphany during the hurricane, Dan finally thanks Forrest for saving his life.
Forrest then returns home to care for his ailing mother, who dies soon afterwards.
Forrest leaves the company in the hands of Dan, who invests their wealth in shares of a "fruit company" (Apple Computer), making them both millionaires.
Forrest gives Bubba's mother a sizable check, causing her to faint, then to retire from her low-paying domestic job.

Jenny returns to visit Forrest and stays with him.
He proposes but she turns him down.
They make love, but she quietly slips away the next morning.
Distraught, Forrest decides to go for a run, which turns into a three-year coast-to-coast marathon.
Forrest becomes a celebrity, attracting a band of followers and inspiring a number of failing entrepreneurs to success.
One day he stops suddenly and returns home.
He receives a letter from Jenny asking to meet, which brings him to the bus stop where he began telling his story.
Once they are reunited, Forrest discovers they have a young son, also named Forrest (Haley Joel Osment).
Jenny reveals that she is suffering from an unknown virus.
She proposes and he accepts, and they return to Alabama with Forrest Jr. and marry.
The wedding is attended by Lt Dan, who now has prosthetic legs and a fiancee.
Eventually, Jenny dies.
Forrest waits with Forrest Jr. for the bus to pick him up for his first day of school, and sits on the same tree stump where his mother sat on his first day of school, and watches his feather bookmark float off in the wind.