The Piano tells the story of a mute Scotswoman, Ada McGrath, whose father sells her into marriage to a New Zealand frontiersman, Alistair Stewart.
She is shipped off along with her young daughter Flora.
The voice that the audience hears is not her speaking voice, but her mind's voice.
Ada has not spoken a word since she was six years old and no one, including herself, knows why.
She expresses herself through her piano playing and through sign language for which her daughter has served as the interpreter.
Flora later tells two women in New Zealand that her mother has not spoken since the death of her husband who died as a result of being struck by lightning.
Ada cares little for the mundane world, occupying herself for hours every day with the piano.
It is never made explicitly clear why she ceased to speak.
Flora, it is later learned, is the product of a relationship with a teacher whom Ada believed she could control with her mind, making him love her, but who "became frightened and stopped listening," and thus left her.

Ada, Flora, and their belongings, including the piano, are deposited on a New Zealand beach by the ship's crew against her angry objections.
As there is no one there to meet them, they spend the night alone, sheltering under a tiny tent made of a hoop skirt frame.
The following day, Alistair arrives with a Māori crew and his friend Baines, a fellow forester and a retired sailor, who has adopted many of the Māori customs, including tattooing his face and socializing with the Māori instead of his own race (save Alistair).
There are insufficient men to carry everything and Alistair abandons the piano, again eliciting objections from Ada.

Alistair proves to be a shy and diffident man, who is jokingly called "old dry balls" by his Māori cohorts.
He tells Ada that there is no room in his small house for the piano.
Ada, in turn, makes no effort to befriend him and continues to try to be reunited with her piano.
Unable to communicate with Alistair, she goes, with Flora, to Baines and asks to be taken to the piano.
He agrees, and the three spend the day as she plays tunes on the beach.
While he socially aligns himself with the Māori, Baines has steadfastly refused any sexual activity with Māori women.
But he clearly finds Ada attractive due to her passion for music.
Baines eventually retrieves the instrument and suggests that Alistair trade it—and lessons from Ada—for some land that Alistair wants.
Alistair consents, oblivious to the budding attraction between Ada and Baines.
She is surprised to find that Baines has had the piano put into perfect tune after its rough journey.
Because he is sexually aroused by Ada's playing, he asks to simply listen rather than learn to play himself, and then offers to let her buy the piano back, one key at a time, by letting him do "things he likes" while she plays.
While Ada and Alistair have had no sexual, nor even mildly affectionate, interaction even though they are married, she negotiates to buy the piano back by allowing Baines to do things in exchange for only the black keys.
However, after several days, Baines chooses to return the piano to Ada, saying to her that he feels that their arrangement "is making you a whore, and me a lecher", and that what he really wants is for her to actually care for him, which he doesn't think she can do.

Despite Ada having the piano back, she ultimately finds herself missing Baines watching her as she plays, and thus, having realized her own feelings for him, she returns to him one afternoon, where they submit to their desire for one another.
Alistair, having begun to suspect something going on between them, hears them making love as he walks by Baines' house, and then watches them through a crack in the wall.
Outraged, he follows her the next day and confronts her in the forest, where he attempts to force himself on her, despite her resistance.
He then boards up his home with Ada inside so she won't be able to visit Baines while Alistair is working on his timberland.
After this, Ada avoids Baines and feigns affection with Alistair, though her caresses only serve to frustrate him more because when he makes a move to touch her in return, she pulls away.
Eventually resolving to trust her, he removes the barriers from the house, and believes Ada will be true to her word that she won't see Baines.

Soon after, Ada sends her daughter with a package for Baines, containing a single piano key with an inscribed love declaration that says "Dear George you have my heart Ada McGrath".
Flora has begun to accept Alistair as her "papa" and is angered by her mother's infidelity.
She brings the piano key instead to Alistair.
After reading the love note burnt onto the piano key, Alistair furiously returns home and cuts off Ada's index finger with an axe to deprive her of the ability to play her piano, while Flora watches on in horror.
He then sends Flora to Baines with the severed finger wrapped in cloth, with the message that if Baines ever attempts to see Ada again, he will chop off more fingers.

However, later that night, while touching Ada in her sleep, Alistair hears what he believes to be Ada's voice inside of his head, asking him to let Baines take her away.
Deeply shaken, he goes to Baines' house and confesses this to him.
Ultimately, he decides to send Ada and Flora away with Baines and dissolve their marriage once Ada has recovered from her injuries.
They depart from the same beach on which she first landed in New Zealand.
While being rowed to the ship with her baggage and the piano tied onto a Maori longboat, Ada insists that Baines throw the piano overboard.
As it sinks, she deliberately tangles her foot in the rope trailing after it.
She is pulled overboard but, deep underwater, changes her mind and kicks free and is pulled to safety.

In an epilogue, Ada describes her new life with Baines and Flora in Nelson, where she has started to give piano lessons in their new home, and her severed finger has been replaced with a silver finger made by Baines.
Ada says that she imagines her piano in its grave in the sea, and herself suspended above it, which "lulls me to sleep."
Ada has also started to take speech lessons in order to learn how to speak again.
The film closes with the Thomas Hood quotation, from his poem "Silence," which also opened the film: "There is a silence where hath been no sound.
There is a silence where no sound may be in the cold grave under the deep deep sea."