A high school guidance counselor, Sam Lombardo (Matt Dillon), is accused of rape by two female students, Kelly Van Ryan (Denise Richards) and Suzie Toller (Neve Campbell), and hires lawyer Kenneth Bowden (Bill Murray) to defend him.
At trial, Suzie admits that she and Kelly had made everything up to get revenge on Lombardo: Suzie for him failing to bail her out of jail on a minor drug charge and Kelly for him having an affair with her wealthy socialite mother, Sandra (Theresa Russell).
Kelly's mother is humiliated by the scandal, and Lombardo and Bowden negotiate an $8.5 million settlement for defamation.
However, it is then revealed that Lombardo and the two girls had been working and sleeping together, and planned to split the money.

Police detective Ray Duquette (Kevin Bacon) tells both Kelly and Suzie that Lombardo transferred the money to an off-shore account.
Suzie panics and goes to Kelly for help; Kelly assures Suzie that they can trust each other, but separately tells Lombardo over the phone that they may have to get rid of her.
Suzie overhears this and attacks Kelly in the pool.
Both girls fight, but eventually end up having sex in the pool, all witnessed by Duquette.
However, a few nights later, Lombardo and Kelly take Suzie to the beach and seemingly kill her.
After wrapping the body in plastic, they throw it in the trunk of the car and drive out to the swamp, where Lombardo disposes of it.

Duquette and his partner, Gloria (Daphne Rubin Vega), are called in to investigate Suzie's disappearance.
Her blood and teeth are later found on the beach while her car is found at a bus terminal.
After seeing his continued investigation, Duquette's superior insists that he drop the case.
Regardless, Duquette goes to Kelly's house to confront her.
When he arrives, Kelly appears to attack him, shooting him in the arm; Duquette is left with no choice but to kill her in self-defense.
No charges are filed against Duquette, but he is dismissed from the force and loses his pension.

Later, it is revealed that Lombardo and Duquette had been working together the entire time.
Although Lombardo is not pleased that Duquette killed Kelly instead of framing her as originally planned, Duquette insists that it leaves fewer loose ends.
The two agree to go fishing on Lombardo's sailboat the following day.
Once they are at sea, Lombardo knocks Duquette overboard.
When Duquette climbs back aboard and attacks Lombardo, he is shot in the leg with a spear by the still-living Suzie.
She shoots and kills Duquette as revenge for killing her friend, Davie, years before.
Suzie then poisons Lombardo with a drink she poured for him and knocks him overboard, leaving him to die.

It is then revealed that Suzie had planned the whole thing in order to get all the money and take revenge on both Lombardo and Duquette: Lombardo for leaving her in jail and Duquette for killing Davie.
Suzie had discovered that Lombardo and Kelly were sleeping together, and used it to her advantage.
As for Kelly's death, she had not attacked Duquette as he had claimed.
In reality, when she tried to escape the guest house when he entered, he punched her to incapacitate her, then broke into the gun case, and shot her twice with his gun.
He then used her hand to shoot himself in the shoulder.
Bowden meets with Suzie and tells her how the money had been divided.
She kisses him on the cheek and as she walks off, Bowden tells her to "be good".