Career criminal Neil McCauley and his crew, Chris Shiherlis, Michael Cheritto and Trejo, hire new recruit Waingro and commit an armored car heist, stealing $1.6 million in bearer bonds from money launderer Roger Van Zant.
Waingro impulsively kills one of the guards however, forcing them to kill the remaining two to leave no witnesses.
An infuriated McCauley tries to kill Waingro afterwards, but he escapes.
Afterwards McCauley's fence, Nate, suggests they try to sell the bonds back to Van Zant, who agrees but secretly instructs his men to kill McCauley at the meeting.
With backup from his crew, McCauley thwarts the ambush and vows revenge.

Lieutenant Vincent Hanna of the LAPD leads the investigation of the heist and learns that McCauley's crew plans to rob a precious metals depository.
Hanna and his unit—Sergeant Drucker and Detectives Sammy Casals, Mike Bosko, and Danny Schwartz—stake out the depository, but when an officer inadvertently makes a noise, McCauley is alerted and abandons it.
Despite the police surveillance, McCauley and his crew take on a final heist, a brazen bank holdup worth $12 million, to secure their personal lives.
Hanna's unit investigates the murder of a prostitute by Waingro, putting them on his trail.
Waingro later approaches Van Zant in search of work and revenge against McCauley.

Hanna learns that his wife Justine is having an affair and moves to a hotel, while McCauley finds a relationship with Eady, a woman he meets in a cafe.
Hanna deliberately intercepts McCauley and invites him to coffee.
Meeting face to face, each concedes to the other the problems of his personal life.
Hanna describes his concern for his depressed stepdaughter Lauren and the failure of his third marriage due to his obsession with work, and McCauley confesses that life as a criminal forbids attachment and requires mobility, making his relationship with his girlfriend tenuous.
Both men admit their commitment to their work and will not hesitate to kill the other if the circumstances demand it.

Hanna discovers that McCauley and his crew have evaded their surveillance, but Trejo is compromised.
In need of a new getaway driver, McCauley recruits Donald Breedan, an ex-convict working a dead-end job at a diner.
Hanna's unit is alerted to the robbery by a confidential informant and surprises McCauley's crew as they exit the bank.
Cheritto, Breedan, and several police officers, including Detective Bosko, are killed in the ensuing shootout.
McCauley narrowly escapes with an injured Shiherlis, and leaves him with a doctor to treat his wounds.
He tracks down Trejo, whom he finds beaten to a bloody pulp with his wife murdered.
Trejo reveals that Waingro was the informant.
McCauley finishes off Trejo at his own request, then kills Van Zant at his home.
He makes plans to flee to New Zealand with Eady, who he reconciles with after she becomes aware of his criminal activities.
The police surveil Waingro in a hotel near Los Angeles International Airport, and Hanna attempts to bait McCauley into coming out of hiding by releasing Waingro's whereabouts through his contacts.

Shiherlis' estranged wife Charlene is lured by her lover Alan Marciano to a police safe house, where Drucker threatens to charge her as an accomplice and send her son into foster care if she doesn't betray her husband to the police.
Charlene initially agrees, but, when Shiherlis shows up in disguise, she surreptitiously warns him, and he slips through the dragnet.
Hanna finds Lauren unconscious in his hotel room from a suicide attempt and rushes her to the hospital.
As he and Justine wait in the lobby, they reconcile but admit their marriage will never work.
McCauley and Eady are en route to the airport when Nate calls with Waingro's location.
McCauley has a change of heart, risking his assured freedom to exact his revenge.
McCauley infiltrates the hotel, creates a distraction by pulling a fire alarm, and kills Waingro.
Moments away from escape, he is forced to abandon Eady when Hanna approaches through the crowd.
Hanna chases McCauley into a field outside the LAX freight terminal and mortally wounds him, before holding McCauley's hand as he dies.