The Galactic Republic is in a period of recent decline.
In response to a taxation on trade routes, the Trade Federation organizes a blockade of battleships around the planet of Naboo.
Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum dispatches two Jedi Knights, Qui-Gon Jinn and his Padawan Obi-Wan Kenobi, to negotiate with Trade Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray to end the blockade.

However, the Trade Federation's secret adviser, Darth Sidious, The Dark Lord of the Sith, orders the Viceroy to kill the Jedi Knights and invade Naboo with an army of battle droids.
The two Jedi escape to Naboo by stowing aboard landing craft, where Qui-Gon saves Gungan outcast Jar Jar Binks from being crushed alive by a Federation tank.
Indebted to the Jedi, Jar Jar leads them to the underwater Gungan city of Otoh Gunga; there, the Jedi unsuccessfully attempt to persuade the Gungans to help Naboo, though they are able to obtain a transport to reach the Capital city of Theed on the surface of Naboo.

The queen of Naboo, Queen Amidala, is captured by the Federation army, but is rescued by the Jedi.
The Queen escapes Naboo with the Jedi on her personal starship, which is damaged on its way through the blockade surrounding the planet, forcing them to land on the planet Tatooine for repairs.
Qui-Gon ventures into the settlement of Mos Espa with Jar Jar and the astromech droid, R2-D2, to a junk shop to purchase a new hyperdrive generator.
The Quenn's handmaiden Padmė tags along with them.

While walking around the city, they meet a nine-year-old slave child, Anakin Skywalker, a gifted pilot and engineer who has created his own protocol droid, C-3PO, who helps him around with the house chores.
Qui-Gon senses a strong presence of the Force within the boy, and suspects he may be the "Chosen One" of Jedi prophecy who will bring balance to the Force.
Qui-Gon makes a bet with Anakin's owner, Watto, to enter him in a podracing tournament; if Anakin wins, he will be freed.
Qui-Gon also tricks him into thinking that the ship Anakin built is his own.
Anakin wins the race and joins the group to be trained as a Jedi, but he is forced to leave his mother Shmi behind.
They are attacked by Darth Sidious' apprentice, Darth Maul, who was dispatched to capture the Queen.

Having escaped the attack, the Jedi escort the Queen to the Republic's capital planet of Coruscant so she can plead her people's case to the Galactic Senate.
Qui-Gon informs the Jedi Council about his recent attack on Tatooine and suspects of his attacker being a Sith.
Qui-Gon also asks to train Anakin as a Jedi, but the Council, concerned that the boy's future is clouded by fear, declines.
Meanwhile, Senator Palpatine of Naboo convinces the Queen to make a "motion of no confidence" in Valorum in attempt to vote for a stronger Chancellor who will help end the conflict.
She pushes such a vote, but grows frustrated with the corruption in the Senate, eventually deciding to return to Naboo with the Jedi Knights.

Back on Naboo, Padmé reveals herself to be the real Queen Amidala, the other "Queen" having been a decoy.
Padmé persuades the Gungans to form an alliance against the Trade Federation.
While Jar Jar leads his people in a battle against the droid army, the Queen tries to capture Gunray in Theed, Anakin pilots a vacant starfighter by accident and joins the fight against the Federation droid control ship in space.
Trying to find a way to leave the battle, he accidentally ventures into the ship, but then blasts through the ship and disables the sensors and the ship's engines, destroying the ship and deactivating the droid army down on Naboo.

Meanwhile, Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon engage Darth Maul in a lightsaber duel.
Despite Maul's enormous skill, Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon gradually force him to give ground; however, Obi-Wan is delayed when Maul knocks him off a platform, and when he catches up to them a temporary energy barrier prevents him from rejoining the duel.
Facing Qui-Gon alone, Maul mortally wounds him.
Obi-Wan arrives, and in a fit of rage cuts away half of Maul's double-bladed lightsaber; however, Maul wears him down and disarms him, trapping him on the edge of an abyss.
Obi-Wan calms himself, leaping out of the pit and summoning Qui-Gon's lightsaber; he kills Maul.
Qui-Gon asks Obi-Wan to train Anakin and become his teacher, then dies.
Palpatine is elected as the new Supreme Chancellor of the Republic and Gunray is sent to stand trial for his crimes.
Obi-Wan is made a full-fledged Jedi Knight, and the Jedi Council accepts Anakin as Obi-Wan's Padawan.
However, the Jedi are still mystified by the recent reemergence of the Sith, and even at Qui-Gon's funeral they are left to wonder if Darth Maul was the Sith master or merely the apprentice, since there are always two of them.
At a festive ceremony, Padmé presents a gift of appreciation and friendship to the Gungans.