Phil and Claire Foster (Steve Carell and Tina Fey) are a married couple from New Jersey with two children and whose domestic life has become boring and routine.
Phil is a tax lawyer while Claire is a realtor.
They are motivated to reignite their romance after learning that their best friends, Brad and Haley (Mark Ruffalo and Kristen Wiig), are planning to divorce to escape the married-life routine and to have more excitement in their lives.

To avoid the routine that had become their weekly "date night", Phil decides that he will take Claire to a trendy Manhattan restaurant called "Claw", but they cannot get a table.
Phil steals a reservation from a no-show couple, the Tripplehorns, despite Claire's misgivings.
While eating, they are approached by two men, Collins (Common) and Armstrong (Jimmi Simpson), who question them about a flash drive they believe Phil and Claire stole from mobster Joe Miletto (Ray Liotta).
Phil and Claire try to explain that they are not the Tripplehorns, but the men threaten them at gunpoint.
Not seeing any other way out, Phil tells them the flash drive is in a boathouse in Central Park.

At the boathouse, Claire pretends to search; while Collins and Armstrong's backs are turned, Phil hits them with an oar and escapes with Claire on a boat.
At a police station, Phil and Claire talk with Detective Arroyo (Taraji P. Henson), but discover Collins and Armstrong are also detectives, presumably on Miletto's payroll.
Realizing they cannot trust the police, they decide to find the real Tripplehorns.
They return to the restaurant and find the Tripplehorns' phone number.

Claire remembers a former client, Holbrooke Grant (Mark Wahlberg), is a security expert.
At his apartment, Grant traces the Tripplehorns' cell phone signal to an apartment owned by a Tom Felton.
Collins and Armstrong arrive, but Phil and Claire escape in Grant's Audi R8.

They arrive at Felton's apartment and break in.
They question Felton, nicknamed "Taste" (James Franco), and his wife "Whippit" (Mila Kunis) about the flash drive and Joe Miletto.
It turns out that Taste and Whippit did go to the restaurant but left as soon as they spotted Collins and Armstrong outside.
Realizing they are still in danger, Taste gives the flash drive to Phil and flees with Whippit.
When Phil and Claire get back in the Audi, Armstrong and Collins chase them.
Phil and Claire crash the Audi head-on into a taxi, resulting in their Audi and the cab being attached at the bumpers.
Both windshields are shot out, so Phil and the cab driver (J.
B. Smoove) agree to drive off under the Audi's power to get away.
Phil climbs into the cab to help control it (in reverse) while Claire drives the Audi, Collins and Armstrong still pursuing along with other NYPD vehicles.
Phil checks the flash drive on the cab driver's Amazon Kindle and finds pictures of district attorney Frank Crenshaw (William Fichtner) with prostitutes.
After evading Collins and Armstrong, they are separated by an SUV.
The cab's brakes fail, causing the cab driver to jump out and Phil to ride the car into the river; Phil swims away and later says the flash drive stayed in the river.

On a subway train, Phil learns that Taste had obtained the flash drive to blackmail Crenshaw on behalf of Miletto.
They return to Grant's apartment, and Grant reluctantly agrees to help them again.
Phil and Claire go to an illegal strip club that Crenshaw frequents, with Claire under the guise of a new prostitute and Phil as her pimp.
After doing a pole dance for Crenshaw, they confront him and tell him they are the Tripplehorns.
Collins and Armstrong come in and hold them at gunpoint, taking them up to the roof with Crenshaw.
Miletto arrives with henchmen and it is revealed that Crenshaw has been paid by Miletto to keep him out of jail.
When Phil mentions the photos, a fight escalates between the mobsters and Crenshaw, Collins and Armstrong.
Phil asks Claire to count to three, her typical method of calming their children.
When she does, a helicopter appears carrying Arroyo and a SWAT team.
They come onto the roof to arrest Miletto, Crenshaw, and everyone else.
It is revealed that Phil was wearing a wire courtesy of Grant, who had informed Arroyo of the situation.

Afterwards, Phil and Claire have breakfast at a diner, where Phil says he would marry Claire and have their kids all over again.
When they return home, they kiss passionately on the front lawn, the first time they have kissed in the film.