

<b><!--
</b>if (window!= top)
top.location.href=location.href
<b>// -->
</b>
The Day the Clown Cried


     THE DAY THE CLOWN CRIED 
     ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY 
     By 
     JOAN O'BRIEN 
     And 
     CHARLES DENTON 
     Based on a Story Idea by 
     JOAN O'BRIEN 
     Additional Material by Jerry Lewis

     I TOOK A CHILD BY THE HAND... 
     TO LEAD HIM ON HIS WAY. 
     I TOLD HIM OF THE LOVE OF GOD... 
     AND TAUGHT HIM HOW TO PRAY. 
     AND AS I SEARCHED FOR BETTER WAYS HIS GUIDE AND HELP TO BE... 
     I FOUND, AS WE WALKED HAND IN HAND, THAT HE WAS LEADING ME. 
     "THE DAY THE CLOWN CRIED"

                        COLD OPENING

     EXT. PARIS CIRCUS - NIGHT

     The normal activity and excitement of showtime around the 
     circus is in evidence where we see the half dark street and 
     alley directly adjacent to the circus tent which (in Paris 
     is an enclosure)... the animals, the midgets, the people and 
     the roustabouts moving with a fixed speed and getting faster 
     as we now know showtime is momentarily due.

     We MOVE TOWARD the action, slowly but definitely picking up 
     SOUNDS and actions of the busy people as we go.

                                  STRAIGHT CUT TO:

     EXT. CIRCUS - FRONT OF CIRCUS - PEOPLE ENTERING - NIGHT

     We see barkers, children, people, pushing... buying tickets, 
     hats, candy... SOUNDS of children laughing, MUSIC playing 
     from o.s. within the tent area... and we...

                                           CUT TO:

     EXT. BACK OF CIRCUS - NIGHT

     A continuation of the animals, trainers, clowns INTERCUT 
     with the action of the circus customers jamming the 
     entranceway to get in... (complimented CUTS from backstage 
     to out front... building to the final crescendo... as we see 
     the alley empty and clear out vs. the front area clearing 
     and also becoming empty.)

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. CIRCUS PROPER - NIGHT

     The fully dressed orchestra playing the oncoming people to 
     their respective seats as we PAN ALONG the happy faces and 
     excited children... DOWN and BACK within the circus backstage 
     and SLOWLY COME TO A STOP OUTSIDE: "CLOWN ALLEY".

     CLOWN ALLEY - NIGHT

     The heartbeat of any circus... The long row of unkempt, yet 
     beautifully neat trunks where the clowns make up, with many 
     of the clowns just coming in and setting their clothes and 
     things around their own little areas... midgets running and 
     playing, like the little children they are about to 
     entertain... MUSIC is in the deep background... as we COME 
     TO A STOP at the large trunk with the letters clearly printed 
     ...'GUSTAV - EUROPE'S PREMIER CLOWN."

     We PULL BACK and AWAY from the lettering on the trunk and 
     REVEAL the face of a gentle but drawn man, a man whose body 
     and movements indicate he has been at this for a long time.  
     As he sits, the little midgets run close to see what they 
     can do to help; one pulls the chair for him to sit on; another 
     brings a hot cup of coffee; another takes his coat and hangs 
     in on the hattree, adjacent to his trunk... as we PUSH PAST 
     HIM to introduce the other clowns... some half made up, others 
     finishing their make-up... and some just sitting and rapping 
     together, smoking, drinking coffee, waiting for showtime... 
     and in the very distant b.g., almost against the wall of 
     clown alley, we see the trunk and the body of a "CLOWN" in 
     silhouette... we CRAWL TOWARDS the body and the trunk... and 
     COME TO A STOP... HOLDING FULL FRAME.  The clown, already 
     made-up and dressed in his tramp outfit, has his head in his 
     hands, leaning down on the trunk table top, a depressed and 
     sad looking hulk of a man... an o.s. voice:

                      MIDGET
          Coffee?  It's nice and hot.

     The MIDGET slides the cup in front of the clown's face... as 
     he picks up his head and smiles and nods yes... he sips the 
     coffee and we see the clown is HELMUT DORQUE (pronounced 
     Doork).

     He is a depressed and very unhappy clown... the frown on his 
     face shows years of knocking around... plus fear that those 
     years are now over.  From o.s. we HEAR the SOUND of a small 
     air horn being blown and carried by one of the midgets.  He 
     is yelling through an old megaphone.

                      MIDGET
          15 Minutes to circus... 15 minutes 
          to circus.

     Upon hearing this, "Clown Alley" really gets busy... all the 
     clowns get up and put their last minute touches together... 
     touching up their make-ups... getting their coats and props 
     together... and as they get themselves up and ready, they 
     exit the clown alley area and start for the arena.  The last 
     one to go is Helmut, lingering behind intentionally as we:

                                           CUT TO:

     INT. CIRCUS ARENA - CLOSEUP RINGMASTER - NIGHT

                      RINGMASTER
          Ladies and gentlemen, we proudly 
          present... "The Clowns"!

     INT. CLOWN ALLEY - NIGHT

     Helmut hangs back until the very last clown exits Clown Alley, 
     as we:

                                           CUT TO:

     INT. CIRCUS PROPER - NIGHT

     The MUSIC is really going strong... and the clowns come on 
     like all forty.  They explode in the ring... doing all their 
     bits and pieces which ultimately brings them back to the 
     entrance area they just came from and they make the "West 
     Point" arch for the TIMPANI DRUM ROLL and the grand entrance 
     of "Gustav" the Great.

     CLOSER SHOT

     "Gustav" makes his famous comedy walk into the tent with the 
     longest pair of tails ever seen (at least 75 feet long) and 
     at the end holding them from dragging on the floor is Helmut, 
     the "Tramp Clown".

     WIDER SHOT

     We see Gustav taking the applause, and it is tremendous.  He 
     stops center of the ring, but Helmut keeps walking and doesn't 
     see the post in front of him as he walks around the post, 
     still holding the tails and goes on his butt, pulling Gustav 
     down as well.  The audience screams with laughter, believing 
     this all part of the act, as we:

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. CLOWN ALLEY - NIGHT

     All the clowns are sitting around their respective trunks 
     and there is a sense of gloom permeating the air, as Gustav 
     and MR. SCHMIDT pace back and forth behind Helmut, both going 
     at him unmercifully.

                      MR SCHMIDT
               (in the middle of his 
               tirade)
          Not to mention how unprofessional 
          that was...

                      HELMUT
          But it was an accident...

                      GUSTAV
          Oh, sure it was... A very well planned 
          and calculated accident!

                      HELMUT
          I swear to you... it was an accident!

     Gustav stops and grabs Schmidt's arm, and with a threatening, 
     pointing finger...

                      GUSTAV
          I don't want to hear any more...  
          You will get me another stooge. I 
          don't want this man!!

                      SCHMIDT
          Don't get excited, Gustav, you shall 
          have it.

                      GUSTAV
          You bet I will, or you shall have no 
          show.

     Gustav walks away, sits at his trunk, starts taking his make-
     up off.

                      SCHMIDT
               (moving to Helmut's 
               trunk, leaning over 
               into Helmut's ear)
          You will run with the other clowns 
          and that's all you will do... is 
          that clear?

     Helmut, shattered, nods his head yes.

                      SCHMIDT
               (continuing)
          And if there is another one of your 
          cute tricks... I promise you will do 
          your bits for the "Cats" while 
          cleaning their cages!

     Schmidt walks away... leaving Helmut stunned and shocked.  
     Helmut lifts his trunk cover, which opens on a hinge and 
     stays upright, as we SLOWLY CRAB AROUND to REVEAL the "One 
     Sheets" glued to the inside of the trunk lid... as Helmut 
     reaches for a towel to clean his face, we read:

             RINGLING BROS. & BARNUM AND BAILEY

                     PRESENTS

            THE WORLD'S GREATEST CLOWN "HELMUT"

                     SCHMIDT

                        From Germany

     The one sheets are battered and torn and certainly appear to 
     be many years old.  As we PAN the "Lid" to see them all, 
     Helmut's face is reflected in the mirror as we see the tears 
     rolling down his face.  As we FREEZE FRAME, MUSIC hits for:

     MAIN TITLES:

     THE DAY THE CLOWN CRIED

     FOLLOWING CREDITS:

     EXT. DESERTED STREET AND BISTRO - NIGHT

     Helmut, dejected and as sad as any man could be, strolls 
     down the deserted street, alone.

     INT. BISTRO

     He comes to a small bistro and walks in... stands at the 
     bar.

                      HELMUT
          Clause... give me a double whiskey 
          with beer chaser.

                      CLAUSE
               (who knows him)
          You won't get "Funny" out of a bottle.

                      HELMUT
          And you won't make a dime sticking 
          your nose in other people's business.

     Clause pours the whiskey, and places the beer next to it; as 
     Helmut gulps the drink down and chases it with the beer from 
     the bottle... we:

                                  STRAIGHT CUT TO:

     INT. THE APARTMENT - NIGHT

     Standing at the window looking out is a beautiful WOMAN, 
     simply dressed, no make-up and clean; she has the look of a 
     woman who has just bathed and one could almost smell the 
     fragrance of bath oil on her body.  She is tense and 
     concerned.

     She sees something and moves toward the door and opens it.  
     There is a beat and finally the o.s. SOUNDS of feet scuffling 
     get to the door.  It is Helmut, fairly crocked at this point.

                      ADA
          Helmut, darling, are you all right?

                      HELMUT
               (nastily)
          Do I look like I'm not all right?

                      ADA
          I was so worried about you...  Your 
          dinner is cold and I couldn't imagine 
          what happened to you...

                      HELMUT
          Were you really worried about me or 
          your stupid dinner was getting cold?

     Ada is hurt by this, but knows something is really chewing 
     away at him... and deals with it even more tenderly, which 
     only digs in deeper on Helmut.

                      ADA
          Sweetheart, I care about you...  I 
          love you... I worry about you...  I 
          can't help those feelings...

     During the above Helmut is at the small bar in the living 
     room pouring another "blast" and gulps it down... he hears 
     the words but tries to ignore them.

                      HELMUT
          If there is anything I don't need 
          right now... it's your super-
          sentimentality...

     He flops down in the armchair and stares straight ahead... 
     Again, Ada is hurt by his blasting her, but she's wise enough 
     to know this isn't the man she loves... she has to get what's 
     eating him out of there.

                      ADA
          Helmut... what's tormenting your 
          soul?  Please let me help you... 
          talk to me...  I don't care what it 
          is... I love you...  I'm your 
          friend... you can trust me to 
          understand...

                      HELMUT
          I can't trust anybody... I don't 
          know how to trust anybody...

                      ADA
          I'm not anybody!  I'm your wife!

     Helmut, hearing these words, looks up at her and sees the 
     beauty in her eyes, and he is affected by this.  He stands 
     up and takes her in his arms... almost breaking her in two.

                      HELMUT
          I'm sorry, my love... I'm so sorry...
          You're right!  You're not anybody.  
          You're my wife and I love you, too...
          So very much I just have no one to 
          fight back at... I'm lost and alone,  
          I can't handle the disgrace of 
          failure... the pain of being a has-
          been is more than I can bear...

     Ada knows now what's happened.

                      ADA
          Schmidt again?  Gustav again?  When 
          will you learn they fear you and 
          they know how vulnerable you are 
          now...  if they can beat you down 
          then they needn't worry about you 
          coming back to haunt them.

                      HELMUT
          They worry about me?  Don't be 
          ridiculous...  they just took the 
          last comic bit away from me... because 
          of a silly accident...  I'm now down 
          at the bottom, just a stooge assisting 
          a not-so-funny clown.

                      ADA
          But they can't take your talent 
          away...  That's your strongest force!

     Walking away from her, getting angry again...

                      HELMUT
          What the hell are you talking about?
          What talent?  And if I had any it's 
          being suffocated into nothing...  
          And that's just what I am now...  
          nothing... No one... just empty...  
          a prop to be used and mis-used...  
          how does my great talent stand up to 
          those odds?

                      ADA
          By not quitting... You must fight!  
          Creative survival is even more 
          difficult than human survival...  
          You must fight!!!

     Helmut gets quiet and listens, and it makes sense... Ada 
     knows she's got him now.

                      ADA
               (continuing)
          Go to Schmidt... Force a 
          confrontation...  Don't let Gustav 
          win...  make Schmidt see what an 
          injustice they are imposing on you...  
          Please, my love, fight!  Make your 
          world better by fighting for it...  
          You can do it... I know you can...

     Helmut hears it all and it sounds so good and right.

                      HELMUT
          I will go now and see Schmidt...
          I will tell him I won't take any 
          more degradation... I will tell him 
          I am a "clown" not a stooge...  A 
          "clown"... A special person...  A 
          special clown...

     Ada happily gets his hat.

                      ADA
               (placing the hat on 
               his head)
          Go, my love... Go and fight for what 
          you know is right... I will warm 
          your dinner and wait for you to come 
          home.

     She kisses him, opens the door for him and he goes.

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. THE EMPTY CIRCUS - NIGHT

     The low key light and the silence of the circus is almost 
     ominous and a little frightening for Helmut as he walks across 
     the empty arena... with a small light burning from up high.  
     All the equipment is tied off.  Slight ANIMAL SOUNDS in the 
     deep background... and the faintest SOUND of circus music is 
     heard.  Helmut is now center of the main ring and stops and 
     looks around.

     HIS POV - THE EMPTY STANDS

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT

     His face tense, then eases as he looks around.

     HIS POV

     The stands are full, the lights come up, and the audience is 
     standing, applauding thunderously!

     MED. CLOSE - HELMUT

     In his clown outfit bowing and acknowledging the ovation.

     HIS POV - THE AUDIENCE

     as they stop applauding and sit down.

     WIDE SHOT

     Helmut -- the chair and the trombone --

     THE TROMBONE PANTOMIME

     As the completion of the "Trombone Pantomime" Helmut walks 
     away from the position he was in with the trombone and bows 
     and milks the crowd for reactions and as he bows the second 
     time... WE SHIMMER:

                                          BACK TO:

     CLOSE - HELMUT

     In bowing position as he looks at the crowd.

     HIS POV - THE EMPTY STANDS

     CLOSE - HELMUT

     His face shows signs of utter despair and dejection... the 
     dream is gone and the memory of what was really hurts deep 
     down.  He looks around making sure he hasn't been noticed by 
     anyone and takes that deep sigh and strolls towards the back 
     of the circus tent area on his way to find Schmidt.

     WIDE ANGLE

     TRUCK WITH HIM, HOLDING the many empty seats in the b.g. as 
     he walks... trying to muster up the courage he's going to 
     have to call... something that has now become totally foreign 
     to him.

     HIGH SHOT - THE EMPTY CIRCUS

     We see Helmut as the tiny figure he feels like, walking out 
     of the tent area and into the backstage section.

                                           CUT TO:

     BACKSTAGE OFFICE AREA - NIGHT

     Helmut enters the section of the circus where Schmidt has 
     his "Temp" office quarters.  It is a tent-like arrangement 
     with the canvas flap as his door and we see light streaming 
     from the half open canvas flap.

     HIS POV - THE TENT OFFICE

     Helmut looks and sees a shadow of a body moving around in 
     the tent office area and starts for it.

     INT. TENT OFFICE - NIGHT

     Schmidt pacing up and down... thinking, as we PULL BACK to 
     see Gustav seated in one of the fold-up chairs with a "I am 
     waiting" look on his face.

                      SCHMIDT
          Naturally, I agree... Doork is a 
          nuisance, but to just let him go 
          seems a little unfair.

                      GUSTAV
          Schmidt!  Don't make me put it on a 
          "either him or me basis".

                      SCHMIDT
          All right... all right... I'll give 
          him --

                                           CUT TO:

     OUTSIDE OFFICE TENT - HELMUT - NIGHT

     listening.

                      SCHMIDT (V.O.)
          -- his two weeks notice tomorrow. 
          Will that satisfy you?

                      GUSTAV (V.O.)
          Perfectly!!  Let's have a drink...

     Helmut drops his head, completely discouraged and saddened 
     by what he knows is a losing battle.  As he starts to walk 
     away we can HEAR the tinkling of glasses and the slight 
     laughter of the two men as we watch Helmut slowly scuff his 
     way towards the backstage circus exit, as we:

     DISSOLVE (12-ft) HOLDING his walk over his limp body at bar.

     INT. THE BAR - NIGHT

     Helmut has had more than a few and really looks beaten and 
     shoddy -- he waves for the bartender to bring another.

                      CLAUSE
               (pouring still another 
               blast)
          It's your funeral.

                      HELMUT
               (not too clearly)
          A funeral is usually in order when 
          someone dies.

     Up to now, we have no idea, whatever, as to the time (in 
     history) we are indeed in Germany, but as Helmut downs another 
     blast we SLOWLY CREEP our CAMERA to include more of the bar 
     than we have seen before and it includes pictures, framed, 
     of soldiers, arms interlocked (looking somewhat like summer 
     camp stills), the German flag (1933 vintage / crisscrossed 
     with the Swastika), a large banner marked "Deutchland" Ober 
     Aliss... and finally, the larger than life photograph of 
     "Hitler".  Helmut slowly CROSSES CAMERA as he takes another 
     drink and starts spouting again.

                      HELMUT
          The trouble with man today is that 
          he takes everything for granted...  
          he thinks things he's told to think...  
          and accepts it! Just because we know 
          meanings of words we use them and we 
          fool ourselves...  people should use 
          the dictionary more...  look up words 
          like good... bad... honest... loyal...
          especially loyal,  I know what loyal 
          means, and I have always been that...  
          but does anyone care?  No!  Of course 
          not...  Only when it is expedient...  
          When it isn't ---
               (he slashes his throat 
               with his finger)
          --- ZIPPPP!  You're out!

     Helmut stops with his BACK TO CAMERA looking straight at 
     "Hitler" and screams:

                      HELMUT
          And that goes for you too... Mine 
          Fuhrer...

     He shoves his right arm up and out at the photograph of 
     "Hitler".

                      HELMUT
          ... you, too, are a fool.  You allow 
          yourself to think you have "loyal" 
          followers...  Ha!  Wait until they've 
          had it with you...  You'll get 
          yours... all the smiling, bowing, 
          heel clicking idiots will shaft you 
          too.  And you will deserve it because 
          if you allow people like Herr Schmidt 
          to got about his business of lying, 
          and cheating, and being disloyal, 
          one day all the Schmidts in Germany 
          will turn on you and you will finish 
          as the dumb little corporal you 
          started as, and never know what hit 
          you...

     During the above dialogue, two S.S. men along with two Gestapo 
     men walk into the bar and sit at a table unseen by Helmut, 
     and as they sit, Helmut continues:

                      HELMUT
          He really has to be stupid --
               (indicating Hitler)
          I could help him by telling him about 
          the people he thinks are good 
          Germans... Ha!

     The two S.S. men and the two Gestapo men just happened to 
     stop in the pub, they can't really believe what they are 
     hearing, and the two S.S. men make a move to get up and secure 
     Helmut.  The head Gestapo man nods to them to stay seated 
     and wait and listen.  Helmut continues his rave and gets 
     more violent as he goes on.  Clause, the bartender, would 
     love to tell him the Germans are there, but chooses to go 
     about his business.

     Helmut is really getting the effects of the booze now and is 
     bordering on flipping his lid, completely.

     (He does the stagger routine trying to get to the table on 
     the other side of the bar furthest away from where the S.S.  
     men and Gestapo men are sitting)... We play this for visual 
     humor, but at the same time showing just how swacked he is!!!  
     Helmut finally reaches the table he has been trying 
     desperately to get to and falls into it, exhausted and 
     emotionally drained.  He looks around at the few people who 
     have been watching him, most of which are frightened at what 
     he has said, trying vainly to stay out of it.  Helmut catches 
     the eyes of the four men (S.S. and Gestapo) just looking at 
     him.

                      HELMUT
               (angrily)
          What are you staring at?  Didn't you 
          ever see a man drink before?

     The four men just stare at him with no answer.

                      HELMUT
          What's the matter?  Haven't you guys 
          got a sense of humor?  You must have!  
          Look how you're dressed!  Grown men 
          in their little soldier suits... And 
          the black coats and gloves... Like 
          in a movie...

     Helmut gets up and walks over to their table... mumbling, 
     and staggering as he goes...

                      HELMUT
          Real cloak and dagger stuff...  Didn't 
          you Gestapo guys ever know that 
          everybody can spot you a mile away?
               (leaning over and 
               whispering)
          Listen, if you really wanted to be 
          unnoticed...  You should dress like 
          plain people, then nobody would  
          know you... You might even wear straw 
          hats and shorts...

     He hears this and gets hysterical laughing.

                      HELMUT
          Straw hats and shorts!!  That's funny!  
          Now that's really funny, isn't it?  
          Straw hats and shorts!

     They just stare!

                      HELMUT
          Well, isn't that funny?   Think of 
          it...  That's funny!   Why don't you 
          laugh?

     HELMUT'S POV - THE S.S. AND GESTAPO MEN

     They are really staring now, hard to believe their ears and 
     eyes.

                      HELMUT
               (gets an idea)
          I know why you're not laughing...  
          Because things you hear, you have to 
          think about... I'll show you something 
          that you'll laugh at because all 
          you'll have to do is watch...

     DIRECTOR'S MEMO!!!    (INSERT CHAPLIN FOOTAGE)

     Helmut goes over to the bar, where a little man is standing 
     drinking his beer.  Alongside of the beer is a small plate 
     with crackers and brown jam.  Helmut takes a comb out of his 
     pocket, dips it in the man's glass of beer, combs his hair 
     down over one eye, takes a finger full of the brown jam and 
     makes a shicklegruber mustache from it... and turns on the 
     four men yelling:

                      HELMUT
          Ve vill conquer the world...  Heil 
          me!  Heil me!  Heil me!

     He screams the last "Heil" and collapses on the floor.  The 
     four men get up and proceed to pick him up and carry him out 
     of the bar.  As they get to the doorway and exit we STAY 
     on... Ada who has just arrived to see them pick him up and 
     carry him away.  She is shocked.  We STAY on a CLOSEUP OF 
     HER FACE showing the strain, pain and sadness as we:

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. LT. REICHER'S OFFICE - OUTER OFFICE - BERLIN GESTAPO 
     HEADQUARTERS - DAY

     We OPEN on the shiny black boots swinging the door open in 
     front of him and as we PULL BACK we see Helmut seated in a 
     slumped position on the hard wood bench as we introduce the 
     wearer of the black boots -- LT. REICHER -- he enters his 
     office as we go with him... (Feather Edge Set)... he walks 
     briskly to the desk where there are briefs and papers stacked 
     high on his desk... he bellows, after looking at the top 
     folder.

                      REICHER
          STEINER !!!!  Get in here!

     A frightened and spineless like corporal springs into his 
     office and clicks his heels and screams.

                      CORPORAL
          Heil Hitler!
               (shooting that stiff 
               arm out like on a 
               spring!)
          Reicher flips his wrist in answer to 
          the heil, showing complete annoyance 
          at having to do it.

                      REICHER
          Do I see what I think I see here?

     The corporal leans over the desk, and in order to see puts 
     his hand on the desk to brace himself... Reicher smacks his 
     arm, knocking his face flat on the desk... he stays there 
     with his ass in the air, waiting for instructions.  Reicher 
     leans down putting his nose right to the corporal's nose.

                      REICHER
          Never put your hands on my desk...  
          is that clear?

     Still in the same position, the Corporal extends his arm for 
     a heil Hitler, which is virtually impossible in the position 
     he is in.

                      CORPORAL
               (meekly)
          Yes sir!

                      REICHER
          MOVE IT!!

     The Corporal rises and stands stiffer than ever...

                      REICHER
               (picking the folder 
               up)
          Now tell me, is this brief correct?  
          Is that prisoner, the drunk, the one 
          that impersonated the Fuehrer?

                      CORPORAL
          Yes sir!  It is!

     Reicher paces behind his desk... the Corporal still stiff at 
     attention... waits and watches in mortal fear.

                      REICHER
               (to himself)
          I get all the weirdos...  Alright, 
          Corporal, send him in!

     The corporal clicks his heels, thrilled that he can go.

                      CORPORAL
          Yes sir!!!!

     He exits, and returns with Helmut and one more guard.  Helmut 
     stands in the doorway, frightened and unsure, Reicher still 
     pacing behind his desk feels Helmut's presence...

                      REICHER
          Alright, come in, sit down!

     Helmut walks to the chair in front of Reicher's desk... The 
     spineless corporal moves towards the door... turns... and 
     takes his position on the opposite side of the door that the 
     guard is standing at...

     Reicher picks up the folder again, fingers through it.  As 
     he looks through the folder, he looks at Helmut and looks 
     and fingers pages and the silence and the anxiety is getting 
     to Helmut as he sweats and waits.

     Reicher is toying with him, and each time Reicher looks up 
     the sick, little-boy smile crosses Helmut's face, hoping to 
     endear himself to this Prussian pig!

     Reicher finally sits down beside his desk in a chair that 
     resembles a throne.  It is high and it looks down on Helmut.

     (Props:  This chair must be higher and taller than Helmut's 
     chair... for POV shots diminishing Helmut seated there.

     OVER REICHER ON HELMUT

                      REICHER
               (soft spoken)
          Are you Helmut Doork?

                      HELMUT
               (nervously)
          Doork, yes sir, Helmut Doork!  I am 
          he!  Yes sir, that is correct, Doork!

                      REICHER
          And are you a clown in the circus?

                      HELMUT
               (ego setting in and 
               forgetting for a 
               moment his trouble 
               and danger)
          Not JUST A CLOWN!  I am Helmut Doork, 
          Premier Clown!  I've clowned for the 
          royal heads of many of our finest 
          countries, why there were times when 
          I had to...

                      REICHER
               (breaking in)
          That was years ago... According to 
          these papers you are now just a helper 
          in the circus with little or no 
          importance!!

     This stuns Helmut, his facade destroyed... His face drops 
     along with his fear...

                      HELMUT
               (meekly)
          Some things are only temporary...  
          Lt. Reicher!  Only yesterday, I had 
          calls from one of the great circus 
          owners in all of Europe... he...

                      REICHER
               (breaking in, strong 
               and angry)
          You are NOTHING!!  You are a HAS 
          BEEN!!  You WERE A CLOWN...

                      REICHER
               (continuing)
          You are now a prisoner of the State 
          and that's not funny... Can you make 
          something funny out of that, Clown?

     Helmut sinks even lower in the over-stuffed chair, despair 
     in his eyes and a weight on his heart... the truth slashing 
     at his very being.

                      HELMUT
               (softly)
          No!  Lt. Reicher, I can't make 
          anything funny from that thought...

                      REICHER
          It is no thought... It is fact, Clown, 
          unquestionable fact!!  Now down to 
          the issues at hand...  Did you 
          willfully and with malice attack the 
          State and impersonate the Fuhrer?

                      HELMUT
               (softly)
          I was drunk!  It was a mistake!  I 
          meant no disrespect... Sir... 
          Honestly, I was drunk and not 
          responsible for my actions and 
          thoughts!  And my actions were 
          subconscious!

                      REICHER
               (screaming)
          Subconscious??  Meaning it was all 
          motivated by truth that came out 
          under the influence of alcohol!

                      HELMUT
               (still softly)
          I am a LOYAL German!

                      REICHER
          And what kind of commendation would 
          you expect for being a loyal German?

                      HELMUT
          I want nothing!  But I'm more loyal 
          than most Germans I know...

                      REICHER
          Like who?

     Helmut realizes this was the wrong thing to say... he 
     sweats...

                      HELMUT
          Ah, like... re...

                      REICHER
          Names!   Names!!!  Who?

                      HELMUT
          I don't know...

                      REICHER
          Sir!!!

                      HELMUT
          I don't know, sir...

                      REICHER
          But you said other Germans... What 
          OTHER Germans...  Who are they?  Why 
          aren't they loyal?  Who?

                      HELMUT
               (trying desperately 
               to cop out)
          I'm not responsible for what I say 
          now...

                      REICHER
          Why?  You're not drinking... you 
          said you weren't responsible last 
          night because you were drunk!  Are 
          you drunk now?

                      HELMUT
          No, sir!

                      REICHER
          Then why are you not responsible 
          now?

                      HELMUT
          I don't know!!

                      REICHER
          SIR!!!

                      HELMUT
          I don't know -- sir !!!

                      REICHER
          Why are you not responsible?  Why?  
          Why?  Why?  Why?

     On each attack of the word "why", Reicher creeps up closer 
     and closer to Helmut, really intimidating him... and the 
     sound of his voice echoes and becomes monotone and ominous...

     [THE NEXT TWO PAGES OF THE SCRIPT ARE MISSING AS THEY ARE IN 
     THE ORIGINAL]

     The corporal gets Reicher's point and marks his notebook, 
     flips the cover closed, snaps to attention as we:

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     INT RAILWAY STATION - DAY

     Ada walking as briskly as a woman can walk without running 
     and then her walk becomes a panic running, looking, sweating, 
     and the look on her face is evident that she is frightened 
     and close to shock... she gets to a train gate where she 
     sees the S.S. men pushing men through the gate to the train... 
     she knows she is where she has to be... she approaches one 
     of the S.S. men...

                      ADA
          Excuse me, sir, but I wonder if you 
          would help me... you see...

                      S.S. MAN
               (very briskly)
          No!  Go away!

                      ADA
          You don't understand...

                      S.S. MAN
          You don't understand...  I said go 
          away !!

     Ada backs away from the gate, and stands to one side watching 
     the prisoners being moved from the back of the huge truck 
     backed up to the railway area... she is looking through the 
     iron bars (we SHOOT the bars holding depth of field snugly 
     so that the prisoners and the bars are in sharp focus)... we 
     make QUICK CUTS between Ada and the prisoners exiting the 
     huge truck... as we see the change of expression on Ada's 
     face we know she sees what she's been looking for... Helmut... 
     he is walking in a slow rhythm following a group of men who 
     look equally as broken and sad as he looks... Ada yells 
     through the bars...

                      ADA
          HELMUT !

     Just as she yells, the voice of an S.S. Man drowns out her 
     scream as he yells...

                      S.S. MAN
          Move along... you swine... move...  
          we haven't got all day... move...  
          move... one-two-three-four --

     His voice rings loudly in echo in the vast station it's as 
     though he is timing his yells to each scream of hers... we 
     see her mouth moving with the SOUND of the S.S. Man's voice 
     coming from it... she is screaming Helmut... as the S.S. Man 
     screams...

                      S.S. MAN
          Move it... move it... move...  move... 
          hurry... faster... faster...

     Helmut and the other men push ahead faster and faster... 
     with INTERCUTS of Ada, tears streaming down her face... with 
     CUTS of Helmut walking with his head down, embarrassed and 
     shattered...

     MED. - ADA

     We MOVE the CAMERA SLOWLY towards her, peering through the 
     bars of the huge gate... and as we MOVE, we HEAR the doors 
     of the train slamming... the whistle... and the slow start 
     of the locomotive moving the train out of the station... by 
     the time we get to the (choker) of Ada... the train is almost 
     out of listening range... She drops her head, wipes her eyes 
     with her handkerchief, as we hear so.:

                      S.S. MAN
               (the same one at the 
               gate who told her to 
               go away)
          Now I would be glad to help you, 
          Fraulein... shall we start with a 
          drink?  There is a lovely little bar 
          around the corner...

     During the above dialogue we see another S.S. Man closing 
     and locking the gate to the train platform... She looks at 
     this "Pig", then down and up as though she were examining a 
     rare, never seen insect... and then right into his face... 
     and softly whispers:

                      ADA
          Go away !!

     She turns and slowly walks the long walk down the empty 
     station corridor as we

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. THEIR APARTMENT - NIGHT

     Ada is sitting at the kitchen table, the table is empty, the 
     light is low and we see the picture of a lonely heartbroken 
     woman, she has a small bowl of soup in front of her and the 
     spoon in her hand is doing nothing more than swirling the 
     soup around in the bowl... she can't eat, which is evident 
     and as she swirls the spoon around, we MOVE IN SLOWLY and 
     into the bowl of soup (choker)... and HOLD on the spoon in 
     the bowl as we

                                  STRAIGHT CUT TO:

     INT. CAMP MESS HALL - INSERT - BOWL OF SLOP - DAY

     We see wooden spoon doing exactly what Ada was doing, just 
     swirling the spoon around in what looks like dirty water 
     with a carrot in it, the bowl is chopped and cracked, the 
     spoon is old and almost white from use... the handle still 
     retains its wooden look... as we PULL BACK we see Helmut is 
     swirling the spoon in the slop... behind him is a Guard just 
     watching his actions... after a beat, the Guard taps Helmut 
     on the shoulder...

                      GUARD
          Tsk!  tsk!  tsk!  shame on you, 
          Doork... shame...  don't you want to 
          grow big and strong like me?

     Helmut knows he's in trouble and just waits indifferently 
     for the fireworks to start...

                      GUARD
          We must eat our food!  Do we want 
          Uncle to feed the little man?

     The guard pulls the man next to Helmut out of his seat and 
     practically throws him to the floor to make room for himself 
     to sit down next to Helmut which he does... he half turns 
     his body towards Helmut and turns Helmut around in the same 
     fashion so they are almost facing one another.  The Guard 
     takes the wooden spoon and fills it with the soup and proceeds 
     to feed Helmut... he stuffs the spoonful of soup into his 
     mouth... and Helmut takes and swallows... then the Guard 
     takes another spoonful and makes believe he is blowing it 
     (like a mother blows the hot soup not to burn the baby's 
     mouth)... and forces the spoonful into Helmut's mouth.

                      GUARD
               (continuing to feed 
               him as he puts the 
               spoon in his mouth)
          And now one for Aunt Ada...

     As the Guard uses the name Ada, Helmut bites down on the 
     spoon and won't let it go... but if looks could kill... he 
     stares at the Guard with hate...

                      GUARD
               (pulling the spoon)
          Let go, Doork, let go... it's the 
          soup that makes us big and strong... 
          not the spoon... LET IT GO!

     Helmut still holds it clenched in his teeth, and the Guard 
     smacks his face full force.  Helmut lets it go... and holds 
     his face, embarrassed and humiliated as any many would be...

                      GUARD
               (continuing)
          Now let's try it again...

     He fills the spoon and sticks it toward Helmut's mouth, but 
     Helmut clenches his teeth keeping his mouth shut.

                      GUARD
          I said let's try it again...

     He shoves the spoon into his lips, as the soup drips all 
     over the front of Helmut's shirt.  The Guard uses the spoon 
     to clean the front of his shirt and forces the liquid he 
     took from the shirt front into Helmut's mouth... Some of the 
     men at the table and surrounding tables feel for Helmut, 
     others think it's funny... they laugh quietly.

                      GUARD
          Oh, I know why you're unhappy... 
          soup without bread is terrible...

     The Guard takes the large loaf of brown bread and rips a 
     huge piece out of the center of the loaf and proceeds to 
     stuff Helmut's mouth with bread, until he looks like his 
     cheeks are eight times their normal size.

                      GUARD
          Isn't that better?  Now take some 
          soup...

     He pushes a spoonful of soup into his mouth which is so full, 
     nothing can get in... consequently the bread spills out, the 
     soup spills out... and he is a mess... (We play this scene 
     for plot value, but it will work comically as well.)

                      HELMUT
          I've had enough, thank you... No 
          more, please...

     The Guard just stares at him...

                      HELMUT
          Please!

                      GUARD
          I'm surprised at you, Doork, you've 
          been here two years now, you should 
          have learned we, of the Third Reich, 
          never acknowledge the weak, sniveling, 
          begging of you swine...  that's all 
          you're good for... begging... 
          pleading... praying...  you're a 
          disgrace to the human race.  That's 
          why we of the superior race must do 
          away with all of you...

     The guard turns to the other men at the table, and goes into 
     one of his mentally unbalanced tirades...

                      GUARD
          And we will!  We will!  Do away with 
          all of you.  You're worthless pigs... 
          with no courage, no guts, why if 
          anyone did to me what I just did to 
          Doork I would kill him!
               (turning to Helmut)
          Why don't you kill me, Doork?  Go 
          on...  kill me... kill me... take 
          the knife from the table and kill 
          me...

     Helmut looks at the knife on the table, picks it up, holds 
     it in stabbing style, thinks about it... and we know by his 
     look, he would love to...

                      HELMUT
               (with knife in hand)
          I would kill you... but I am getting 
          my release any day now... and I won't 
          do anything that would spoil my 
          chances...

     Helmut digs the knife into the table top and buries his head 
     in his hands... totally shook from the encounter...

                      GUARD
          Your release?

     He begins to laugh, but hysterically.

                      GUARD
          Release?  They told me you were 
          funny...  but I never realized just 
          how funny you are...  RELEASE ????

     And the hysterical laughter really echoes throughout the 
     mess hall as the Guard makes his way towards the exit.  The 
     men at the table slowly get up and exit the scene, as do the 
     others at the surrounding tables... leaving Helmut just 
     sitting there... we PULL BACK to reveal the empty mess hall, 
     and the lonely sad body of Helmut, as he looks around 
     realizing he's alone, gets up and slowly creeps out of the 
     hall like a puppy with his tail between his legs... as we

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. PRISON YARD - FULL SHOT - DAY

     There are two rows of prisoners quarters, wooden buildings, 
     weather beaten each row consists of about a dozen barracks 
     each... joined at the ends, farthest from the CAMERA by the 
     administration building, a two story type making a "U" shape 
     of the compound... The entire yard is surrounded by two high 
     wire fences about ten yards apart and fifteen feet high.   
     At intervals of about twenty-five yards, in the area between 
     the fences, are the guard towers, each about eighteen feet 
     above the ground equipped with searchlights, sirens, machine 
     guns, with three Guards on duty.  Along outer fence, also 
     about twenty-five yards apart, other powerful lighting 
     equipment mounted on high poles.

     It is morning and although the sun shines brightly it doesn't 
     in any way alter the drabness of the compound... nor does it 
     help change the look of the men...

     There are about three hundred men milling about, some still 
     chewing what was their breakfast, some pulling brown bread 
     from their shirt fronts and exchanging bread for cigarettes 
     or just making deals, one with another... some sit along the 
     barracks walls trying to get some sun... others walking in 
     circles... some talking, laughing, even playing cards... 
     doing whatever they can to kill time...

     PAN the entire camp.  At completion of the long PAN 
     introducing the prison camp, we pick up the sixtyish JOHANN 
     KELTNER (formally ANDERLICH), a warm, sensitive looking 
     greying man, thin but with a dignity and a serenity about 
     him... He walks briskly (and we know he'd love to walk slowly 
     and tiredly, but we can see he knows his attitude and conduct 
     will help those that can't help themselves...)

     His face tells us he is good, kind and the reason men want 
     to live, he is special and he smiles at all those he passes, 
     greets the men and is generally what man wishes he could be 
     under the same circumstances...

     He walks into the building, which we learn is the barracks...

     INT. BARRACKS - DAY

     The barracks are empty... Keltner enters the huge room and 
     looks around and sees Helmut at the other end of the barracks 
     just walking back and forth like a caged lion... angry, hurt, 
     sad, and generally out of sorts... he can't even hear Keltner 
     approaching him... he finally stops at the back wall of the 
     barracks and lays his head against the barracks wall...

                      HELMUT
               (not aware Keltner is 
               behind him)
          Dear God, please hear me!

                      KELTNER
          He hears you, my son...

     Helmut jumps, scared... throwing his back against the wall, 
     like a man who fears being attacked at any time...

                      KELTNER
               (sympathetically)
          Here, here, easy, you can't do this 
          to yourself...

                      HELMUT
          You frightened me, Johann, I'm 
          sorry...

                      KELTNER
               (softly)
          You have nothing to be sorry for...  
          Fear isn't something controlled by 
          man...  fear can not be conferred 
          with...  there isn't anyway known to 
          mankind where man can say to 
          himself...  "I will not be afraid"... 
          Oh, certainly man can try to fight 
          it... but faith and believing are 
          man's only chance...  You must have 
          faith... you must!

                      HELMUT
          I have faith... but not always...  
          sometimes it eludes me...  I can't 
          remember to remember it.

                      KELTNER
          But that's natural... you can't expect 
          to be perfect in what you try to 
          do...

                      HELMUT
          I don't know...

     He starts pacing again.

                      KELTNER
          I heard what happened at breakfast 
          this morning with ROTHMAN, the 
          guard...

     Helmut spins around, frightened again...

                      HELMUT
          Will they do something to me? What 
          have you heard?

                      KELTNER
               (putting his arm around 
               him)
          Nothing, absolutely nothing... don't 
          worry about it... I just wanted you 
          to know that I believe you handled 
          yourself admirably...

                      HELMUT
          That was one time I didn't care for 
          the laughs I was getting from some 
          of the men...

                      KELTNER
          Of course you didn't... but I'm sure 
          you know man laughs for two reasons... 
          one because something is funny... 
          two, because they fear showing fear... 
          they laughed because "there but for 
          the grace of God go I!"

                      HELMUT
          Do you really think so?

                      KELTNER
          I'm certain of it!

     Helmut smiles and takes Johann's hand, tenderly, and warmly:

                      HELMUT
          Thank you, Johann.  I always feel so 
          much better after you talk to me...

                      KELTNER
          I'm glad, Helmut, I'm very glad...  
          you know you can always talk to me, 
          about anything...

                      HELMUT
               (remembering)
          Oh!  I almost forgot...

     Helmut puts Johann around the back of the barrack area near 
     the wall out of sight of anyone coming in...

                      HELMUT
          Before breakfast this morning,  I 
          spoke to one of the guards, a very 
          intelligent one, and he seems quite 
          nice and friendly too.  Well, he 
          said that the Gestapo has set up a 
          special review board to handle cases 
          just like mine.  And he said he would 
          get me a form, a special form.  Just 
          been printed up.  And I'm to fill it 
          out.  Isn't that good?

     Keltner looking at him, like a child that believes in the 
     boogie man:

                      KELTNER
          How many times since you've been 
          here, have you filled out forms?  
          Twenty?  Thirty times??

                      HELMUT
               (in fast)
          But this is different.  It's entirely 
          new.

     Helmut takes out a set of papers from his back pocket to 
     show Keltner.

                      HELMUT
          See?  These are made up by the Gestapo 
          itself... and the form will go 
          directly to Berlin, to Gestapo 
          headquarters.  That's the important 
          thing about this... the Gestapo's in 
          on it.  That's a very good sign.
               (a beat)
          Isn't it a good sign?

                      KELTNER
               (sympathetically)
          Yes, my son, it is a good sign.

                      HELMUT
               (in fast, excited; 
               scanning the papers)
          And I have to be very careful of 
          everything I put down on the form.  
          The tiniest detail could make the 
          difference.  Don't you agree?

     Helmut looks up and notices Johann is looking up towards the 
     ceiling of the barracks... watching something... Helmut looks 
     up, too.

     THEIR POV - THE BIRDS

     Up and under the eaves of the barrack just above their heads, 
     two small birds are perched (apparently they flew in from 
     outside and decided to nest there).

     BACK TO HELMUT AND KELTNER - TWO SHOT

                      KELTNER
          Isn't it strange?  They are free to 
          go anywhere they want, and they come 
          here to nest.

     Helmut doesn't react to Keltner's dialogue, but goes back to 
     his creased and soiled papers that he's read a thousand times 
     before, and reads them again... as he reads... Keltner takes 
     a piece of brown bread from his shirt pocket and crumbles it 
     and throws the crumbs up to the little birds...

     HIS POV - THE BIRDS

     They scramble to chew the crumbs, and they do...

     DOWN SHOT - KELTNER

     watching.  Johann just watches, smiling at the birds, turns 
     and looks to see if Helmut is watching, too...

     HELMUT - CLOSE

     Intense at scanning through the papers and totally oblivious 
     to Keltner and the birds...

     KELTNER - CLOSE

                      KELTNER
               (softly)
          Watch the birds eat, Helmut... it's 
          so cute...

                      HELMUT
          I'm sure I've got everything here...  
          The important facts from the moment 
          I was arrested, the questions the 
          Gestapo officer asked me...  now 
          what was his name again?  I can't 
          seem to remember what his name was...

                      KELTNER
          HELMUT...

                      HELMUT
          What the devil was his name?

                      KELTNER  (LOUDER)
          HELMUT !

                      HELMUT
               (coming out of it)
          Oh, yes, Johann... I'm sorry... you 
          were saying?

                      KELTNER
          You're not a religious man, are you, 
          Helmut?

                      HELMUT
               (thinking about it)
          Well, I... ah...

                      KELTNER
          Not sure I am myself anymore.

     Helmut quite surprised by this remark.

                      KELTNER
          Yet... when I see those birds, I 
          wonder...  were they sent here to 
          let us know this place really isn't 
          God forsaken?

                      HELMUT
          He should have sent them elsewhere...  
          they could be eaten here!

     Helmut goes back to studying his papers, Keltner ponders 
     Helmut's remark, looks backup at the birds... his face full 
     of compassion, as we:

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. BARRACKS - NIGHT (DUSK)

     We now see the Barracks completely (SHOOTING from flat on), 
     the wooden bunks are housed in a low wooden building with 
     eight two tier bunks on each side.  A group of men are 
     clustered around Keltner's bunk.  Here we meet:  ADOLF, a 
     large, once powerful man, in his mid thirties.  LUDWIG, once 
     a fairly prosperous businessman before his politics landed 
     him in prison, is older, and his bitterness is written all 
     over his face.  FRANZ, is the youngest.  He is a sensitive 
     looing twenty five year old, more than likely the "rebel" 
     type of the 1930s.

     Helmut is in his upper bunk over Keltner writing on an old 
     piece of paper with a scruffy pencil, which he bites to make 
     a point of, and wets with his tongue like any fat butcher 
     selling liverwurst and marking the price on a brown paper 
     bag... (i.e. Brooklyn, circa 1928).

     We TRUCK the CAMERA down the long barrack to include the 
     other men doing their things.  A couple of men are getting 
     ready for a card game... several others are comparing 
     clothing, mending and helping one another, a couple play 
     chess.  A few are sleeping, but for the most part, most of 
     the men lay in their bunks staring at the ceiling... The 
     floors are spotless... suffice to say they better be... the 
     walls have nothing hanging but a few socks drying... a torn 
     calendar, wrong year, etc.

     CLOSE - KELTNER GROUP

     Johann sits with his back to CAMERA... at the edge of his 
     bunk, leaving room on his bunk for Adolph, Ludwig, Franz.

     He is showing something to them that we cannot see.  Keltner's 
     body covers whatever it is that the three men are gawking 
     at, facing CAMERA... and they are indeed gawking with delight 
     and admiration.

                      LUDWIG
               (seriously)
          I think we should eat it!

                      KELTNER
          Not on your life...
               (catching himself)
          Er, that is... I wouldn't...

                      FRANZ
          Put it somewhere so it can brighten 
          up the place.

                      LUDWIG
               (sourly)
          It would take a hell of a lot more 
          than that to brighten up this place.

                      ADOLF
          It'll be better than looking at your 
          long face.

     Chuckling, Keltner rises.  We BOOM UP with him, and as his 
     head comes up over the top of the bottom bunk... he holds 
     out the object for Helmut to see... It is a potato, a sorry 
     looking spud... that Keltner has put in a small can of water 
     and is beginning to sprout two sick-looking shoots.

                      KELTNER
               (to Helmut)
          Do you see the way it's sprouting...  
          I told you it wasn't completely 
          rotten.

                      HELMUT
               (his mind on his thing)
          That's nice, Johann.  Do you remember 
          when I filled out those last forms?  
          The date might be important.

                      KELTNER
               (almost annoyed)
          About four weeks ago, I think.

     LOOSER SHOT

     As Keltner walks away from Helmut's bunk.

                      KELTNER
          I'll put it up here on the window 
          sill, it'll get the morning sun.

     He reaches the window and starts to reach up, to place the 
     potato on the sill... a hand shoots out holding the hand of 
     Keltner...

                      STOUT PRISONER
          Think you can trust your potato so 
          close to me, Reverend?

                      LUDWIG
          The potato he TRUSTS... it's you he 
          doesn't trust!

     All the men laugh, including the "stout prisoner" who laughs 
     the loudest... Keltner hands the stout prisoner the potato, 
     who in turn takes same and places it gently on the window 
     sill just adjacent to his bunk... after placing it on the 
     sill, he gestures ala the trapeze artist after making a super 
     truck, looking for applause... Keltner pats his leg in a 
     gesture of "thank you".  He starts back towards his bunk 
     when the front door of the barracks flings open and the Guard 
     enters.

                      GUARD
          ATTENTION !

     The men jump, but quickly, to their feet, and stand at 
     attention at the front of their bunks, ala inspection in the 
     army.  They are rigid and waiting to hear what's up.  The 
     Guard takes a few steps into the barracks... behind him we 
     see several prisoners carrying bunks waiting to enter the 
     barracks.

                      GUARD
          All the prisoners from the other 
          side of the camp are being moved 
          over to this side of the camp over 
          to this side of the camp.  Barracks 
          "H" will make room for three 
          additional bunks.

     He takes a few steps down the aisle...

                      GUARD
          I want all the bunks moved down toward 
          the far end.  Get them as close 
          together as possible. Now! GET MOVING!

     LONG SHOT

     The men scramble back to their own bunks and immediately 
     begin pulling, shoving, and grumbling comments about being 
     too overcrowded as it is...

                      THE MEN
               (ad lib)
          Gotta have more room... We need more 
          space...  Hey, watch where you're 
          going. This is stupid!

                      GUARD
               (yelling)
          YOU!  You down there at the end...  
          get those bunks right up against the 
          wall.

     CLOSE - HELMUT AND KELTNER

     As bunks are moved towards the far end of the barracks, 
     Keltner and Helmut prepare to move their bunks, the last 
     ones on their side.  Helmut and Adolf, who have already made 
     their move, come up to Keltner to help him with his bunk... 
     Helmut sees that Keltner has help so he decides to back off 
     and hide in his little corner with his pencil and scrap of 
     paper... totally involved with his own pain and his undying 
     fantasy about his ultimate release...

     WIDER SHOT - THE ENTIRE BARRACKS

     The guard looks down the barracks as the men just about finish 
     the moving job...

                      GUARD
          Hurry it up!  Come on, get moving!

     The guard turns towards the door and motions for the SIX 
     PRISONERS to enter the barracks... they enter by pairs, each 
     pair carrying a double-tier bunk.

     Their personal belongings are piled on the bunks and slung 
     over their shoulders in sacks (barracks bags)... the Guard 
     motions for the two bunks to be placed next to Helmut's and 
     one on the opposite side... next to the Stout Prisoner... 
     NOTE:  This arrangement leaves space for one additional bunk 
     right by the door.

     The guard motions for the Stout Prisoner and Herman to give 
     the new arrivals a hand with the placement of their bunks.

                      GUARD
          Get them close.
               (he looks around the 
               barracks)
          You're all going to be nice and cozy 
          in here.

                      STOUT PRISONER
               (in a loud voice)
          Yeah, like triplets before they are 
          born to a mother weighing 98 pounds...

                      HERMAN
          That's what I call cozy!

     The guard smiles, and all the men laugh...

     ANOTHER ANGLE

     The guard starts for the door, satisfied with the 
     arrangements... as he gets the door open, Helmut runs over 
     to catch him before he makes his exit...

                      HELMUT
               (anxiously)
          Excuse me, sir, the papers...  Did 
          they arrive yet?

                      GUARD
               (annoyed)
          They'll have to wait!

     He exits, closing the door behind him.  Helmut, with a look 
     of despair on his face, goes back to his bunk.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT AND KELTNER

                      HELMUT
          You'd think, since he was coming 
          over here anyway, the least he could 
          do was bring the papers with him.

                      KELTNER
          This moving men around has undoubtedly 
          kept him very busy... don't worry, 
          he'll bring them.

                      HELMUT
          I'm sure if I asked him again he'd 
          really become annoyed with me.  Would 
          you remind him for me, please?

                      KELTNER
               (kindly)
          Of course I will.

     Helmut climbs up to his bunk and goes back to his precious 
     paper work.

     WIDER ANGLE

     As the new prisoners make up their bunks and arrange their 
     belongings, the regulars of Barracks H, among them Adolf, 
     Ludwig, Herman and Franz, begin moving towards them to meet 
     them.  Keltner turns to the new white-haired prisoner whose 
     bunk is directly next to his.

                      KELTNER
          I've seen you around the yard, but 
          the others...

                      WHITE-HAIRED MAN
          About thirty of them got here 
          yesterday from the prison outside of 
          Frankfurt.

                      1ST NEW PRISONER
               (who occupies the 
               bunk above the white-
               haired prisoner)
          For the last three months we've been 
          shuttled from one camp to another.

                      2ND NEW PRISONER
               (his bunk is the lower 
               bunk on the direct 
               opposite side)
          Now they're shuffling us from one 
          side to another.  I think they're 
          trying to lose us.

                      HERMAN
          Do you think they're bringing in war 
          prisoners?

                      LUDWIG
          I don't know why they're sending 
          them here...  we're overcrowded as 
          it is.

                      KELTNER
          No, no... it's got to be something 
          else...  Otherwise they would have 
          left the bunks.

                      ADOLF
          It could be possible that he is fixing 
          up the barracks for some of his lady 
          friends.

                      KELTNER
          That many women?

                      HERMAN
               (standing at attention)
          Reverend, we Germans are SUPERMEN!

     All the men break out in laughter at Herman's comment and 
     his actions... but the laughter is cut short as they HEAR 
     the door open again, and they all look in that direction.

     ANOTHER ANGLE

     SHOOTING OVER the men onto the door, entering is the same 
     guard that was just there... this time he enters with two 
     more prisoners carrying their bunks.  One of them is JOSEF 
     GALT, a burly bully like man, who knows all the tricks of 
     survival, and ERNST UHLMANN, a think little man with a face 
     like a weasel... they follow the Guard into the barracks 
     proper.

                      GUARD
          ATTENTION !

     The men quickly snap to attention.  The guard indicates for 
     Galt and Uhlmann to put the bunk in the space right by the 
     door.

                      GALT
          We might as well be outside.

                      UHLMANN
          If I get pneumonia, I'll hold the 
          government responsible!

                      GUARD
          With a little luck, you'll both get 
          pneumonia!

     The guard turns and moves towards the door, stops, and turns 
     to see all is well, and exits the door, closing it behind 
     him.

     Galt sits on the lower bunk as Uhlmann sprints up to the 
     upper bunk and looks towards the original men, who are just 
     standing around watching the two new "fish"... then men sense 
     trouble and slowly and quietly return to their own bunks... 
     some of the other men just stare at the two new prisoners...

                      UHLMANN
               (sitting on his bunk)
          It's sure quiet in here...

     WIDER ANGLE

     Uhlmann in his surveying the barracks spots the potato plant 
     on the window sill... next to the Stout Prisoner's bunk... 
     he jumps from his bunk and runs over towards the plant... he 
     takes it from the window sill and yells over to Galt...

                      UHLMANN
          Hey, Galt!  Come over and look at 
          this!

                      GALT
               (coming over to Uhlmann)
          What is it?

                      UHLMANN
          Ain't it cute?

                      GALT
          It's a God damn posie!

     He and Uhlmann burst into laughter...

                      UHLMANN
          Looks kinda sick, doesn't it?

                      GALT
               (examining it)
          It's one of them potato things...  
          and it sure as hell is sick!

                      UHLMANN
          Maybe we should put it out of its 
          misery.

                      GALT
          No, we don't want to do that...  we 
          might break someone's heart.

     He looks around at the other prisoners.

                      GALT
          Whose little plant is this?

     The stout prisoner gets up from his bunk and starts to move 
     forward and challenge Galt... but Keltner jumps from his 
     bunk and gets to Galt first.

                      KELTNER
               (with deep conviction)
          The plant is MINE!

                      GALT
          Is it now?  Tell me precious... do 
          you knit, too?

                      KELTNER
          If necessary, I can... and I do !

     This brings a ripple of laughter from the others... 
     particularly the new prisoners who are delighted at seeing 
     someone stand up to Galt for a change... Galt with a sneer 
     on his face steps out into the aisle to face Keltner square 
     on!

                      GALT
               (to Uhlmann)
          What do you think of that, Uhlmann... 
          he knits!

                      UHLMANN
          Now, if he could just cook...

     Galt and Uhlmann laugh, but they are the only ones that do...

                      GALT
               (coming out of the 
               laugh)
          Can you cook, sweetheart?

     Keltner knows damn well he can't fight the brute, yet he 
     realizes that if he steps down, life not only for him, but 
     for the others in the barracks will be intolerable under 
     Galt's bully rule.  (During the following dialogue, Adolf, 
     Franz, Ludwig, Herman and the Stout Prisoner... easy up a 
     little closer to Keltner and Galt.)

                      KELTNER
          If necessary, I can cook, yes!  Now, 
          if you don't mind, I'll take that 
          plant!

     He holds out his hand... Galt, wearing a deceptive smile, 
     eyes the older man...

                      GALT
          Alright, old man, you really want 
          it?

     He raises his arm over his head with the plant in that hand.

                      GALT
          Go get it!!

     CLOSE - KELTNER

     He looks past Galt at Helmut who is sitting up on his bunk...

     CLOSER - KELTNER

     He looks at Helmut.  His eyes try to encourage Helmut to do 
     something, say something, do anything to show that he is on 
     Keltner's side.

     CLOSE - HELMUT

     He sits up on his bunk, and wants nothing to do with the 
     bully and his pranks... so he goes back to studying his papers 
     and looks up again to catch Keltner's look of disappointment, 
     and as Keltner turns away from Helmut... Helmut realizes he 
     should do something to show Keltner he, indeed, cares... he 
     jumps down from his bunk and grabs Galt by the arm and turns 
     him around... they are now face to face...

                      HELMUT
          Why don't you pick on someone your 
          own size...

                      GALT
               (shocked, but pleased 
               that he finally got 
               a rise out of someone)
          What?

                      HELMUT
               (firmly)
          You heard me!  Give him his plant 
          back, and leave him alone...  He 
          didn't bother you ... and if you 
          have to show your muscle, there's 
          plenty of other guys to pick on!

                      GALT
          You're my size!

     ... and with this, Galt smacks Helmut a shot across the mouth 
     that sends him spilling into the corner, half knocked 
     unconcious... he lays there with blood flowing from his 
     mouth...

     Keltner leaves Galt and runs to the corner to see if Helmut 
     is okay.  Galt follows him... Keltner is leaning down checking 
     Helmut... as Galt bends down next to the two of them... still 
     holding the plant.

                      GALT
          He's alright... that'll teach him to 
          keep his nose out of my business... 
          here's your plant!

     Galt makes like he's handing the plant to Keltner, who reaches 
     for it, and as he does Galt slowly stands up making Keltner 
     reach and reach and reach... and as Keltner gets closer and 
     closer, Galt stands to his fullest height... making it 
     literally impossible for Keltner to get it... Franz, Ludwig, 
     Adolf, Herman and the Stout Prisoner (more than likely 
     provoked by Helmut's stand, now circle Galt)...

                      GALT
               (still holding the 
               plant up high)
          Go on, little man, reach for it!

     Keltner, torn between seeing that Helmut is alright, and 
     getting his plant back, tries to get it, and still looks to 
     see that Helmut isn't hurt too bad...

                      HERMAN
               (in a low menacing 
               voice)
          Give it to him!

     Galt looks at him with a menacing stare...

                      ADOLF
          You heard him... give it to him!

                      FRANZ
          You've had your fun... give it to 
          him... NOW!

                      STOUT PRISONER
               (closing in on Galt)
          RIGHT NOW!!

     Galt realizes this is no time for a showdown... and with a 
     childlike smile... grits his teeth...

                      GALT
          Sure, here's your stupid flower or 
          whatever you call it...

     Keltner takes it from him.

                      KELTNER
          Thank you...

     Keltner leans down and picks Helmut up and walks him to his 
     bunk, helps him onto it, and puts the plant on his own bunk...

     ANOTHER ANGLE

     The four men:  Ludwig, Adolf, Franz and Herman stay with 
     Galt, as does the Stout Prisoner... They are clustered around 
     Galt.

                      GALT
          What's the matter with you guys?  
          Can't you take a joke?

                      ADOLF
          What joke?

                      GALT
          Hell, all I was doing was trying to 
          have a little fun.

                      LUDWIG
          Have it with someone else!

                      GALT
          What's so special about him?

                      ADOLF
          That's the Reverend.  Even when they 
          came and dragged him from his 
          church...  he kept right on preaching 
          against them until they knocked him 
          unconscious.

     Galt is silent for a beat.

                      GALT
          Well, how the hell was I supposed to 
          know?

                      HERMAN
          NOW you know!

     Galt shoves his way through the five men and walks beaten, 
     for the moment, to his own bunk... as the men disperse and 
     walk back to their respective bunks...

     CLOSE - GALT AND UHLMANN

     Galt walks over and sits at the edge of his bunk, while 
     Uhlmann swings his legs back and forth from his perched 
     position on the top of his bunk... Galt gives him a stare...

                      GALT
          You and your posies...

                      UHLMANN
          That was close...

                      GALT
          Where were you when I need you?

                      UHLMANN
          I make love, not war!
               (goes giggly over 
               what he just said)
          Hey, that's pretty good... I made 
          that up... Make love, not war!  I 
          bet that would make a good slogan 
          someday...

                      GALT
          Aw, shut up!

     And he smacks his legs up and onto the bunk.

     TWO SHOT - KELTNER AND HELMUT

     Keltner with a wet towel in his hand cleaning the blood-
     dripping mouth of Helmut...

                      KELTNER
          That was really very nice of you, 
          Helmut...

                      HELMUT
          Yeah, nice and STUPID!

     Helmut grabs the towel and throws it to the floor and turns 
     on his side away from Keltner.  Keltner bends down, gets the 
     towel, sits on the edge of his bunk... looks up, wonders and 
     ponders Helmut as we

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. BARRACKS H - NIGHT

     The door to Barracks H slowly opens and Helmut peeks through 
     the opening to see that all is clear... he slips out and 
     walks along the dark, dreary alleyway towards the Guard's 
     shack... he moves like a prisoner trying to miss the 
     spotlights in a jail break...

     ANOTHER ANGLE

     Helmut gets to the Guards hut... he looks into the window, 
     and sees the Guard he wants... sitting at his desk eating 
     off a tray that has a meal fit for a king on it... including 
     the "doilies"... wine, and a steak that would satisfy six 
     men in Barracks H... Helmut looks around to be sure no one 
     notices him and slowly slips up to the front door of the 
     shack and knocks on the door...

     INT. GUARD'S SHACK - NIGHT

                      GUARD
               (annoyed at being 
               bothered)
          Come in!

     The meek and frightened Helmut enters the shack and walks 
     over to the Guard's desk, and his eyes go immediately to the 
     tray of food.  While the Guard just stares at him... somewhat 
     shocked at his presence in the shack.

                      GUARD
               (breaking the silence)
          What the hell are you doing here?  
          Who gave you permission to leave 
          your quarters?

     Helmut tries to talk as the guard gets louder and louder.

                      GUARD
          Are you some kind of privileged 
          character?

     Helmut nods no...

                      GUARD
          Then what are you doing out of the 
          barracks?

     The frustration of not being able to answer, and the 
     frustrations of being hungry... and the child-like treatment 
     Helmut is getting from this Pig becomes emotionally too 
     much... as he screams...

                      HELMUT
               (turning red)
          If you'll shut your stupid mouth 
          maybe I can answer one of your 
          questions!

     The Guard looks at Helmut in disbelief... but at the same 
     time a little delighted at this chance to show his German 
     superiority... as he slowly gets up from behind the desk and 
     crosses to Helmut, with a sneer that would frighten Rommel...

                      GUARD
               (nose to nose with 
               Helmut)
          I have a STUPID MOUTH?

     Helmut backs away towards the door, and the Guard moves closer 
     and closer to him... backing him up against the door.

                      HELMUT
               (meekly)
          I'm sorry, I didn't mean to raise my 
          voice...

     He bows his head in fear, as well as concern for what he 
     might have done to his chances of release.

                      GUARD
          The volume of your voice isn't the 
          issue...  it's what comes out of 
          your mouth that disturbs me...  maybe 
          you need a little lesson in respect 
          and courtesy...

     And he smacks Helmut across the face with his black glove...

                      GUARD
          ... and maybe I've been a little too 
          soft with you...

     He smacks him again, harder... the glove now feels like a 
     sword to Helmut... and his hands hang limp down by his sides.

                      GUARD
          You see, Doork, I knew why you came 
          in here...  I knew why you left your 
          barracks without permission... It's 
          just that I hadn't heard you mention 
          your release papers for so long I 
          had hoped I could hear you begging 
          once more...

                      HELMUT
               (in a whisper)
          I'm sorry...

                      GUARD
               (mimicking him)
          I'm sorry, I'm sorry... You're a 
          sorry specimen of a human being... 
          that's what you are...

     And he smacks him this time with all the force he can 
     muster...

                      GUARD
          Now, I will help you to your quarters, 
          Herr Doork, here you will stay, and 
          pray for release papers that may, or 
          may not, ever come...

     This wakes Helmut's soul and he becomes erect and stonefaced 
     at the words the guards just said... this look infuriates 
     the guard even more... he grabs Helmut by the scruff of the 
     neck... like grabbing a wet cat to be thrown out of the 
     house... and he opens the door and pulls Helmut by the back 
     of the office... out the door, down the three steps and onto 
     the ground... and pulls him like a sack of potatoes to the 
     barracks doorway...

     EXT. BARRACKS H - DOORWAY - NIGHT

     Helmut is just about beaten at this point as the guard opens 
     the door of the barracks and pulls Helmut into the doorway, 
     and his body stops on the threshold.

     INT. BARRACKS H - NIGHT

     SHOOTING OVER the men onto the doorway... in the deep b.g. 
     the sad body and figure of the man lays in the doorway, as 
     the Guard kicks him in the ribs, unmercifully...

                      GUARD
          Now, get inside where you belong and 
          don't ever let me catch you doing 
          anything without permission again.

     Helmut slowly gets up... in pain and practically crawls to 
     his bunk... having to pass all the men, almost as though he 
     were ashamed .. he gets to his bunk, and tries vainly to get 
     up to the top where he lives... Keltner helps him... and as 
     he settles in his place...

     CLOSE - THE GUARD

                      GUARD
               (yelling across the 
               barracks)
          Reverend!  If you don't watch that 
          idiot, we may have to get him a 
          keeper!

     The guard storms out the door... slamming it shut.

     CLOSE - KELTNER AND HELMUT

     Keltner leaning over the side of Helmut's bunk whispering... 
     as the other men go back to their respective chores and 
     whatever they were doing when the guard stormed in...

                      KELTNER
          Helmut, Helmut, how could you think 
          of doing such a thing? I begged you 
          not to irritate him...  and that I 
          would ask him about your papers...  
          that wasn't smart, Helmut... not 
          smart at all...  as a matter of 
          fact...

                      HELMUT
               (gritting his teeth)
          Leave me alone!  ... and mind your 
          own business... Just leave me be...

     Keltner knows this is nothing more than Helmut's dismay and 
     pain in his heart talking... The kindly man drops down to 
     his own bunk... just shaking his head... as if to say, how 
     can I help him?  as we:

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. BARRACKS H - DAY

     The same Guard is motioning for the men to hurry and get 
     outside... he is standing at the doorway to the barracks and 
     the men are moving out into the ice cold morning as briskly 
     as they can... the Guard moves inside after the last man has 
     made his exit...

     INT. BARRACKS - DAY

     SHOOTING OVER the Guard as he looks around, we see Keltner 
     coming out of the toilet area, rushing because he's late... 
     he throws his towel on his bunk, and as he does... he sees 
     what stops him in his tracks...

     KELTNER'S POV

     It is Helmut still sound asleep in his bunk...

     ANOTHER ANGLE

     Keltner moves towards Helmut to wake him...

                      GUARD
               (in a sotto voice)
          Reverend, let him sleep... you move 
          out, I'll take care of this...

     Keltner reluctantly starts to move out towards the front 
     door, as the Guard passes him on his way to Helmut's bunk... 
     Keltner goes out the door... the Guard sneaks over towards 
     the bunk where Helmut is asleep and very sneakily slips the 
     cover off Helmut's body... then proceeds to open the window 
     above his head and the window alongside... and across the 
     way and opens the back door... which is adjacent to the toilet 
     area... and walks out of the barracks leaving the front door 
     wide open...

     EXT. BARRACKS H - DAY

     All the men are lined up for inspection, they are all looking 
     straight ahead as the Guard walks down the line.

     All except Keltner who can't help but look in the direction 
     of the barracks where he knows Helmut is still sleeping.  He 
     throws a glance at the guard as if to say... why?  Why are 
     you doing this?  Why did he leave Helmut sleeping, usually 
     the one thing that would send the guard up a wall... why is 
     he allowing this to happen?

                      GUARD
               (as he finishes his 
               walk)
          You are a sick looking group of 
          things...  I can't even call you 
          human...  because you're not... you're 
          all lice...  DISMISSED!

     The men break up and go about their business, they move in 
     all directions, but Keltner starts for the doorway to the 
     barracks and is detoured by the guard who knew he would, as 
     he stands in the way of Keltner who has to turn away and go 
     about his business... the Guard peeks into the barracks.

     INT. BARRACKS - GUARD'S POV - DAY

     Helmut still sleeping...

     EXT. BARRACKS - CLOSE - GUARD - DAY

     He is delighted... he grabs the door and slams it shut with 
     a bang that would wake the dead... then opens it again and 
     walks off...

     INT. BARRACKS - CLOSE - HELMUT - DAY

     He jumps from out of his hard sleep... foggy and unsure about 
     where he is, what time it is and he looks around and sees 
     the barracks are empty... and he panics... but he is also 
     shivering... the barracks feel like the inside of a meat 
     truck refrigerated somewhat below zero...

     Helmut grabs his pants from the front of his bunk, pulls the 
     cover over him and tries to get the pants on under the 
     cover... It is cold!  (Photographically, we can show "cold"... 
     Props:  vapor/smoke.)

     He gets his pants on and jumps down onto the cold floor and 
     dances from the ice-like floor, he bends down looking for 
     his socks and shoes... he wears just a tee-shirt...

     Having trouble finding both shoes, he grabs the blanket again 
     and covers himself with it, while searching for the other 
     shoe...

     He finds the other shoe and proceeds to put them on... takes 
     a beat and sees he has no socks on... reaches under the bank 
     and pulls out the pair of socks... which stand straight up 
     (from the cold ... he holds them in the air, and drops one 
     at a time and they sound like "pans" hitting the floor... he 
     takes one and blows warm air from his mouth into the socks, 
     one at a time, which warms them... (Props:  the socks need 
     discussion!)

     He then proceeds to put his shoes on and puts one on, and 
     then the other... now wearing both shoes he starts to tie 
     the laces... he pulls them straight away to tie and they 
     stand straight up!  (Props:  this is done with leather laces, 
     pure leather... it works without any unnecessary rigging!)

     INSERT - THE STANDING STRAIGHT LACES

     BACK TO SCENE

     He finally gets them tied and starts, still sleepily, into 
     the toilet area... (We can go for a great sound joke here.)  
     He steps into the latrine, closes the door and we HEAR the 
     SOUND of crushed ice being poured into the bowl... he flushes 
     and we HEAR what might sound like an ice crusher... he steps 
     out of the latrine and walks over to the basin and turns the 
     water on.

     INSERT

     The water spigots... they both read "COLD".

     BACK TO SCENE

     And as he takes some water on his hands to his face... it is 
     "cold" and his face just freezes from the pain of the cold... 
     he looks around and sees the little metal ashtray, that looks 
     like a small bowl or a tin from a used shaving cream lather 
     soap... he fills it with water.. and to show his ingenuity, 
     he takes a lighter from his pocket, places the tin on the 
     edge of the sink and lights the fire under the tin (which 
     couldn't possibly hold more than a handful of water) and 
     proceeds to heat same...

     Once he is satisfied that it is at least warmer than the 
     spigot supplied, he grabs for the tin which is so hot from 
     the burning, he screams in another type pain... the pain of 
     "HOT" hurting... he decides to flick his fingers in the tin 
     bowl and splash some of the water on his face (which is by 
     now, just drips of water)... brushes his teeth with his finger 
     and soap... straightens his hair and exits the toilet to his 
     bunk to get his shirt... another "ICE COLD" item... he feels 
     how cold it is, and doesn't have the courage for another 
     climate blast... he rolls up his shirt and places it under 
     his armpit to warm it... as it hits under his arm... the 
     cold just about wipes him out... he decides to sit on it... 
     and he does.

     CLOSE - THE GUARD - AT THE DOOR

     He's been peeking all the while... He figures he's had his 
     laugh, and it's the first time we see he can laugh... he 
     steps into the barracks area, and yells:

                      GUARD
          Doork!  Move it out, and on the 
          double!!

     Helmut jumps with fright, unravels his shirt, runs towards 
     the open door putting on his shirt as we

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. BARRACKS H - NIGHT

     Most of the men are clustered around their bunks, and in the 
     dull light we see some of them in the aisles, talking, playing 
     cards... while most of the others are whistling, clapping, 
     and laughing as Uhlmann does his silly little clog dance... 
     it is apparent the ugly episode between Galt and Uhlmann has 
     been forgotten for the moment.

     The lights are hung from cords down off the ceiling and for 
     a complex this size it could use ten... there are but two.

     Uhlmann is having the time of his ignorant life... the more 
     the men applaud, the more he "clog dances".

     MED. CLOSE SHOT - LUDWIG AND ADOLF

     They are both seated on their top bunk, Adolf enjoying the 
     poor dance Uhlmann is giving as Ludwig looks down the aisle 
     towards Helmut's bunk.

                      LUDWIG
               (nudging Adolf)
          It looks like Helmut found some new 
          ears to listen to his Super Star 
          fantasies...

     Adolf takes a look, shrugs his shoulder, as if to say I 
     couldn't care less... and goes on watching the action of 
     Uhlmann and the other men...

                      LUDWIG
               (to himself, but for 
               Adolf to hear as 
               well; a la 
               Shakespeare, mimicking 
               Helmut)
          Ringling Brothers would have done 
          anything for me to appear with them 
          but I had to do what was best for 
          me!

     CLOSE - HELMUT AND THE FOUR NEW PRISONERS

     The four new men are surrounding Helmut on the top of his 
     bunk listening to his bragging.

                      HELMUT
          So I told Mr. Ringling if he wanted 
          "Helmut" he'd have to bring his circus 
          to Germany... I am a German, I told 
          him, and my responsibility is to my 
          own people who are my biggest fans.

                      1ST PRISONER (NEW ONE)
          Did you really say that?

                      HELMUT
               (proudly)
          Of course I did... they offered me 
          anything...  anything I wanted to go 
          with them.

                      2ND NEW PRISONER
          Hey! I saw the circus in Berlin about 
          four years ago...  Didn't  you make 
          your entrance in a long tail coat 
          with a pair of tails on the jacket 
          about fifty feet long?  Sure!  And a 
          funny Little clown at the very end 
          carrying the tails like a woman's 
          train?

     Helmut studies the prisoners glare and decides he couldn't 
     even remember the clown he saw was Gustav the Great, why 
     not?  No one would ever know... and he nods with a kind of 
     studied humility... yes.

                      2ND NEW PRISONER
          You were great!

     Helmut eats it up.

                      2ND NEW PRISONER
          You should have seen him... You'd 
          never know it was him... with the 
          long tails  and white tie... red 
          nose...  long hair...  and a battered 
          top hat... with the hair hanging way 
          down to his shoulders...  and, ah, 
          let me see... oh, yeah... your mouth 
          went from ear to ear.

                      HELMUT
               (softly)
          Right!

                      3RD NEW PRISONER
          How do "clowns" ever come up with 
          such ideas for faces and make-up?

                      HELMUT
          It doesn't happen overnight... it 
          takes years and years... You try 
          many faces, then finally you hit the 
          one that's just right for you.

                      4TH NEW PRISONER
          My kids will never believe this, I 
          can't wait to... tell...

     His voice trails off as he realizes the hopelessness of what 
     he was about to say.  This puts a damper on the discussion 
     and the men start to break up and get down off the bunk.  
     Helmut, seeing his captive audience leaving... panics.

                      HELMUT
               (emotionally)
          Wait, let me tell you some other 
          things...  I mean things that are 
          really exciting and...  please!  
          Please... let me just have a few 
          more...

                      1ST NEW PRISONER
               (ignoring Helmut 
               completely)
          What's going on with those guys?

     He's looking off down the aisle where Uhlmann has his 
     audience... The four prisoners move out into the aisle to 
     get a better look, leaving Helmut perched on his bunk with a 
     pleading and broken look of despair...

                      HELMUT
               (a last attempt)
          Did you know "clowns" literally 
          bequeath their faces to their sons, 
          or sometimes to...

     He realizes it's futile as the four new prisoners move towards 
     Uhlmann and the others down the aisle...

                      3RD PRISONER
          Come on, let's see what's such fun...

     He moves and the others move along with him.  Helmut thinks 
     about joining them, and starts to move off his bunk but his 
     body won't respond... he just hangs there limply... his head 
     lowered, a sad man.

     ANOTHER ANGLE

     SHOOTING OVER the men placing Helmut in the very deep  b.g. 
     as we see the four new prisoners walk over to watch the 
     action...

     MED. CLOSE - UHLMANN, GALT, KELTNER, AND OTHERS

     Uhlmann is just finishing his dance with a spin, when he 
     finally gets dizzy and topples over on one of the bunks.  
     All the men applaud wildly.  Uhlmann laying half down and 
     half up on the lower bunk he landed on, breathing heavily... 
     yells over to Galt...

                      UHLMANN
          Hey, Galt, it's your turn, how about 
          doin' one of your belly dances for 
          us?

     All the men agree and start yelling for Galt to do it... 
     Galt moves out into the center of the aisle in the clearing 
     made by the men, and holds up his hands for silence... they 
     quiet down and Galt looks around until he spots Keltner.

                      GALT
          Reverend?

     The men become very still, they look from Galt to Keltner 
     and back to Galt, their eyes reflecting suspicion of him, 
     wondering what he's up to now.  Galt is fully aware of this.

                      GALT
          Well, Reverend, what do you think?  
          Would a little belly-dancing be too 
          much for the boys?

     Keltner studies Galt for a beat, then accepts his offer of a 
     truce.

                      KELTNER
               (moving over towards 
               Galt)
          A little fun is what we need... so...  
          if you'll all hold the noise down, 
          I'll join in.

     A hushed cheer goes up from the men as Keltner stands besides 
     Galt.  Galt holds his hands over his head and nods for Keltner 
     to do the same thing.  The Reverend does, and now Galt begins 
     undulating his hips.  Keltner studies the move for a beat 
     and then does the same thing but with comical awkwardness.  
     Franz starts playing a slow sensuous rhythm on his harmonica.  
     The men clap and whistle softly.

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT

     He is sitting upright on top of his bunk, watching what Galt 
     has Keltner doing, a look of disgust passes his face as he 
     turns away from what he'd been watching and gets busy with 
     his papers and figuring again.

     MED. SHOT - GALT, KELTNER

     They are just finishing their dance.  The men applaud wildly 
     but softly... Keltner, puffing, moves over to the side and 
     sits on one of the bunks to catch his breath.  Galt takes a 
     few bows, and the men react with applause and whistling that's 
     beginning to take on "noise" proportions... Keltner motions 
     for the men to hold it down... and they do.

                      4TH NEW PRISONER
          Say, why don't we get the clown to 
          do something?

                      GALT
          A clown?  Who's a clown??

                      HERMAN
          You've heard of "Helmut Doork".  
          That's him down there!

                      LUDWIG
          Don't waste your time.  You'll never 
          get the Great Doork to do anything.

     WIDER SHOT

     as he starts walking towards Helmut's bunk...

                      1ST NEW PRISONER
          Oh, I'm sure he will!

     The others follow right behind.  There is a look on Keltner's 
     face like he would like to stop them, but between his puffing 
     and his certainty that Helmut will be alright, he stays where 
     he is.

     CLOSE - ADOLF

     as he walks with the others.

                      ADOLF
          You're wasting your time.  He doesn't 
          perform for the likes of us... he'll 
          turn you down.

                      LUDWIG
          He's right, we've been asking him 
          for three years...  I have a feeling 
          he only does his little routines for 
          the crowned heads of Europe.

                      ADOLF
          And, of course, the BIG heads of 
          Berlin.

     There is general laughter... as the group arrives at Helmut's 
     bunk.

     CLOSE - HELMUT

     He sees something's going to happen, he puts his papers away 
     and sits upright... waiting... his eyes catch Galt's eyes 
     peering at him.

     Galt tells it all with his eyes... This one isn't "sacred" 
     to the men... he might just be the pigeon Galt's been hoping 
     for... the one every bully looks for, for his own brand of 
     fun.

                      1ST PRISONER
          How about it, Doork?

                      HELMUT
               (swinging his legs 
               around ready to jump 
               down)
          I'd like to, but I can't... really... 
          I can't.

                      GALT
               (strongly)
          Can't?  Did I hear you say you can't?

                      HELMUT
               (it stops him in his 
               tracks; he stays up 
               on the bunk)
          I'd like to do something... but...
               (pointing to the 2nd 
               New Prisoner)
          He can tell you... He's seen me 
          work...  I need props... make-up...  
          I work with a lot of different 
          things...

                      2ND NEW PRISONER
          That's right... I did... and he does!

                      HELMUT
               (in fast)
          Sure, tell them... I can't just do 
          anything...  I need lights, props, 
          my costume.

     Galt doesn't like no for an answer...

                      GALT
               (gritting his teeth)
          Now, me and these... gentlemen...  
          we don't expect you to do your "act", 
          just a little something that'll give 
          us a laugh, that's all.

     Keltner moves in from o.s. and stands at the back of the 
     group watching and listening.

                      LUDWIG
               (to all the men)
          Aw, forget it... and that's probably 
          his problem...  he's forgotten how!

                      GALT
               (trying to suck him 
               in)
          Wait a minute, you guys... show people 
          have to be in a mood...
               (to Franz)
          Play a little music, like in a 
          circus...

     Franz starts playing his harmonica... slowly...

                      GALT
          There!  Ain't that nice?  Don't it 
          put you in a mood?

                      HELMUT
               (getting fed up)
          I TOLD YOU!  I need things to do my 
          act.

                      2ND NEW PRISONER
          Hey, Doork, what about that drunk 
          routine... that was funny...

     Helmut looks at him puzzled... he can't think or remember 
     anything at this point... certainly not anything relating to 
     any of the previous lies he's told...

                      GALT
               (pacifying his head 
               off)
          Yeah, that drunk thing...  that does 
          sound funny...

                      HELMUT
          I still need many things... props 
          and...

                      2ND NEW PRISONER
               (puzzled)
          I don't remember you using anything 
          in that drunk routine.

                      GALT
               (starting to fume)
          Hey... are you trying to fool us?

     With this Keltner moves in and up to Galt.

                      KELTNER
          Leave him alone!

                      GALT
          Stay out of this, Reverend. We're 
          not doing anything... We just want 
          him to join in the fun.

                      UHLMANN
               (to the men)
          Right!  If a Reverend can give us a 
          laugh, why not a clown?

     All the men ad lib their agreement with what Uhlmann just 
     said; it appears that they are all on Galt's side, and Keltner 
     knows it.

                      KELTNER
               (to Helmut, softly)
          It doesn't have to be anything 
          special... a little dance, maybe?

                      HELMUT
               (taking it all out on 
               Keltner)
          Like that disgusting exhibition you 
          did?  Oh, no... not me!

                      4TH NEW PRISONER
          Go on, Doork, so I can tell my kids.

                      HELMUT
          Can't you get it through your heads, 
          I need...

                      GALT
               (firmly)
          WE need you to give us a laugh.

     Galt grabs Helmut's jacket and pulls him off the bunk, nose 
     to nose to him...

                      GALT
          So... TRY!

     Galt has Helmut by the neck portion of the jacket, practically 
     choking him to death... his vice-like hands are closing in 
     on his throat and Helmut's trying vainly just to breathe...

     One of the prisoners starts pounding his feet and making a 
     march-like noise yelling from the other end... "So try!"... 
     "So try!"... "So try!"... "So try!"... the other prisoners 
     in the barracks pick up the chant and the stomping... Keltner 
     doesn't even hear the racket they've started because of his 
     concern for Helmut being choked to death... He tries to loosen 
     Galt's hands from Helmut's throat.

                      KELTNER
          That's enough, leave him alone!

                      GALT
          Stay out of it, Reverend!

     Galt spins Helmut around so that his back is facing the aisle 
     and he walks him into the center area... the other men feeling 
     this violence happening, and watching.  Helmut being choked, 
     triggers all of their venom and their hate and they really 
     come on strong... stomping, yelling...

                      THE MEN
               (ad lib)
          Choke him harder...  see if that's 
          funny!  Make him dance! Hey, Doork!...  
          be funny now! He don't look so funny 
          to me!  He sure as hell looks funny 
          to me!  Hey, Galt, pull his string 
          and make the dummy funny!

     And they stomp and they stomp and they stomp... "So try!"... 
     "So try!"... They get louder and louder... Helmut is kicking 
     his legs, which are off the ground, and Galt won't let go.

     CLOSE - HELMUT

     His face is turning color... he hasn't a lot of air left in 
     his lungs... and Keltner is practically hanging onto Galt 
     trying to get his hands loose... and Galt could carry another 
     three men without batting an eye.  Galt puts him down slowly, 
     in the middle of the aisle, so that just his feet touch the 
     ground, but he keeps his hands around his throat.

                      GALT
          Your public is calling, clown... 
          now, clown!

     WIDER SHOT

     SHOOTING OVER Galt, Keltner and Helmut, we see the door of 
     the barracks slam open and bang against the wall making more 
     noise than anything all the men made together, and they all 
     freeze...

     MED. CLOSE - THE GUARD

     He stands in the doorway, legs spread apart, hands on his 
     waist... and he is wearing a raincoat, the barracks has become 
     totally silent... all that is heard is the rain pecking away 
     on the roof.  Galt has let go of Helmut who just lays on the 
     floor with Galt and Keltner on both sides of him...

                      GUARD
               (walking slowly into 
               the barracks)
          What is going on here?
               (to Helmut)
          On your feet!

     Helmut gets up, dizzily, just about getting oxygen back into 
     his system...

                      GALT
               (like a little boy)
          He was showing us some of his funny 
          clown falls...

     The Guard surveys the faces of the others as they stare back.

                      GUARD
          Because of all the noise coming from 
          in here -- I have been called up 
          front to explain...  I don't like to 
          be called up front...  I don't like 
          to have to explain...
               (menacingly)
          And, you might not like it, either.
               (a beat)
          Back to your bunks, all of you...  
          Turn out the lights, and keep it 
          QUIET !

     As the guard turns to the door to go, Helmut takes a step 
     forward about to stop the guard, Keltner grabs his arm and 
     turns him the other way... the Guard exits closing the door, 
     quietly behind him... The men start to disperse... Galt gives 
     Helmut a "I'll get you for this" look and returns to his own 
     bunk with Uhlmann almost up his ass following... Keltner 
     leads Helmut back to their bunk.

                      HELMUT
               (whispering)
          I was just going to ask him about 
          the forms... my release...

                      KELTNER
               (shaking his head)
          That was not the time, believe me!

     Keltner sits Helmut down next to him on his lower bunk, as 
     Helmut rubs his throat, and tries swallowing a few times...

                      KELTNER
          Hurt much?

                      HELMUT
               (beaten)
          No, I'm alright... thank you.

     They both sit in silence... Helmut breaks the silence...

                      HELMUT
          Johann, why do they pick on me?  
          I've never done anything to them.

                      KELTNER
          You've never done anything for them!

     Helmut dislikes Keltner's remark and gets up from the lower 
     bunk and starts up to his.  He gets to the top bunk and starts 
     to get onto it, stops and whispers to Keltner.

                      HELMUT
          You think I should have performed?

                      KELTNER
          The men would have appreciated it.

     Helmut rolls into his bunk, the lights go out and he lies on 
     his back staring at the ceiling.  Keltner sits on the side 
     of his bunk and takes his shoes off... periodically the rays 
     from the searchlights revolving outside cross the windows to 
     momentarily flood the barracks with light.  After a few 
     seconds, Helmut leans over to whisper to Keltner.

                      HELMUT
          Johann!

                      KELTNER
               (he stands up, eye 
               level with Helmut)
          What is it?

                      HELMUT
          They don't believe me, do they?  I 
          mean about being a clown?

                      KELTNER
          Oh, I'd say you've convinced most.  
          However --
               (a long beat)
          There is one you haven't convinced...

     Helmut stares at Keltner, knowing full well what's coming... 
     yet doesn't have the courage to take the chance that it might 
     be another thought... so he waits...

                      KELTNER
               (gently)
          You, Helmut... you!

     CLOSE - HELMUT

     The truth of Keltner's charge hits Helmut with an overpowering 
     force.  He looks at Keltner for a beat... his eyes filled 
     with pain, then slowly turns away from him, leaving him 
     standing there as we PAN with Helmut and HOLD on...

     CLOSE - THE WINDOW

     The rain is pouring down.

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     FULL SHOT - YARD - DAY

     It is the next morning, a chilly, damp day following a night 
     of rain.

                      LOUDSPEAKER (O.S.)
          Attention!  Attention!  All prisoners 
          will assemble immediately in the 
          yard.  All prisoners will assemble 
          immediately in the yard. Attention!  
          Attention!

     The loudspeakers repeat the command.  Across the muddy, puddle 
     splotched yard, a barbed wire barricade about six feet high 
     has been erected, dividing the camp in two.  A number of 
     guards patrol the fence on both sides.

     EXT. BARRACKS H - WINDOW - DAY

     Uhlmann is looking out into the yard.  He motions to someone 
     to "take a look at this".

     INT. BARRACKS H - DAY

     Galt has just arrived at the window where Uhlmann is standing.

                      UHLMANN
          They've put up barbed wire!

     MED. SHOT - FAVORING HELMUT, KELTNER

     They look at each other in wonder as they start into the 
     aisle.  The men in the barracks are frantically trying to 
     organize themselves.

     EXT. PRISON YARD - DAY

     The prisoners are pouring out of the barracks doorway.  Galt 
     and Uhlmann are already standing outside as Helmut, Keltner, 
     Herman, Adolf, Franz, Ludwig, Stout Prisoner, New Prisoners, 
     join them.  All look o.s. momentarily speechless at what 
     they see.

                      GALT
          What the hell... ?

     FULL SHOT - YARD - PRISONERS' POV

     Beyond the fence we see men, women and children standing in 
     groups near the barracks on that side of the camp.  The SOUND 
     of children crying can be heard.

     VARIOUS SHOTS - MEN

     As they quickly scurry to line up in front of their own hut.

                      STOUT PRISONER
          Youngsters!  They've got youngsters 
          over there.

                      YOUNG PRISONER
          Women!

                      ADOLF
          Another fence!

     MED. SHOT - PRISONERS - FAVORING KELTNER

     Helmut stands next to him.

                      HELMUT
          What does it mean?  What do they 
          need a fence for?

                      KELTNER
               (shaking his head)
          Misery loves company.  Looks like 
          they're going to deny us even that.

     The Guard is shoving the late-comers into place.

                      GUARD
          All right.  All right, move.  Hurry 
          it up.  Move.

     ANOTHER ANGLE

     SHOOTING ACROSS the prisoners in f.g. toward the new fence.  
     Guards move among the men, herding them into lines.  On the 
     other side of the fence, we can see the new arrivals lining 
     up, being prodded into place by Guards.

     LONG SHOT - PRISON YARD - DAY

     On both sides of the fence, the prison inmates have assembled 
     in the wet, forbidden yard.  On one side are the regular 
     prisoners, who watch the guards warily as they straighten 
     their lines.  On the other side are the new prisoners -- 
     about two hundred frightened Jews of all ages, including 
     thirty or forty children and a number of very old men and 
     women.  They stand in absolute silence as the loudspeakers 
     blare again, except for the crying children.

                      LOUDSPEAKER
          Attention!  The Commandant issues 
          the following special order:  the 
          north side of the camp is now 
          temporary quarters for non-Aryan 
          prisoners.  Fraternizing between 
          Aryan and non-Aryan prisoners is 
          strictly prohibited.  Any violation 
          of this order will be severely 
          punished.  Heil Hitler... Repeating...

     ANOTHER ANGLE

     SHOOTING THROUGH the booted, outspread legs of a soldier 
     guard in f.g. toward the line of prisoners behind him.  One 
     woman holds a child of about three who cries inconsolably.

                      LOUDSPEAKER
          The Commandant issues the following 
          special order:

     As the announcement is read, the guard's legs turn around, 
     and he walks away from the CAMERA toward the woman.  He stands 
     before her menacingly, and she clutches the child closer to 
     her in a futile attempt to hush its crying.

                      LOUDSPEAKER
          The north side of the camp is now 
          temporary quarters for non-Aryan 
          prisoners.  Fraternizing between 
          Aryan and non-Aryan prisoners is...

     MED. SHOT - PRISONERS

     SHOOTING along line of prisoners from barracks H to show 
     their various reactions as the announcement continues -- 
     disdain, surprise, sympathy and relief.  The guard stands 
     with his back to the line at the end farthest from the CAMERA.  
     Galt is near the CAMERA.

                      GALT
               (under his breath)
          Jews!

     Prisoners nearest to Galt eye him questioningly.

                      LOUDSPEAKER
          ... strictly prohibited.  Any 
          violation of this order will be 
          severely punished.  Heil Hitler.

     The loudspeakers go dead.  The prisoners stand silently 
     studying the new arrivals across the yard.  The new prisoners 
     self-consciously file back into their huts on the other side 
     of the fence.  As the prisoners begin to break rank --

                      GUARD
          Prisoners from barracks H remain in 
          line.  Barracks H will remain in 
          line.

     The prisoners turn and look in direction of the Guard as 
     they straighten their lines.  The guard paces slowly along 
     the line inspecting it silently.  On the fringes of the scene, 
     we can see prisoners from other barracks gathering to see 
     what their fellow convicts are in for.

     MED. CLOSE SHOT - GUARD

     Finally he stops and contemplates his shabby charges with 
     disgust.

                      GUARD
          I said last night I didn't think I 
          would enjoy being called up to account 
          for the noise coming from barracks 
          H.  I can tell you this morning I 
          didn't enjoy it.

     He walks down the line, looking at each man.

                      GUARD
          I don't know what caused the trouble 
          last night, but I'm not blaming you 
          entirely.
               (fatherly)
          I failed you.  I should have seen 
          that you all have much too much energy 
          for the confined life you lead here.
               (he smiles benevolently)

                      GUARD
          We're going to correct that.  I've 
          been told that energy comes from 
          food.

     MED. SHOT - PRISONERS

     Their faces reflect that they know what is coming.

     ANOTHER ANGLE

     SHOOTING PAST the line of prisoners in f.g. to the Guard, 
     who has paused to let his words sink in.

                      GUARD
          So... to help you... all rations are 
          canceled for the next... forty-eight 
          hours.

     A hushed ripple of ad lib grumbling and growling rolls along 
     the line of prisoners.

                      GUARD
          And, if that doesn't quiet you down, 
          I'll think of some other ideas you'll 
          like even less. I'm going to make 
          this barracks the quietest in the 
          camp.
               (roaring)
          Is that clear?

     The prisoners are silent but their faces register their 
     resentment.

                      GUARD
          Now, don't blame me.
               (with sly meaning)
          I didn't start the trouble last night.

     The truth of what he has said is reflected in the faces of 
     the men.

                      GUARD
          Fall out.

     ANOTHER ANGLE - FAVORING HELMUT, KELTNER

     As they stand with the other prisoners, watching the guard 
     move off.  Keltner looks worried, the others are angry, Helmut 
     seems undecided as his eyes follow the guard.

                      HERMAN
          Bastard!

                      STOUT PRISONER
          I can't go without food. I'll starve.

     Suddenly Helmut makes up his mind and starts off after the 
     Guard.  Keltner, sensing the mood of the men, puts a 
     restraining hand on his arm, whispers to him hoarsely.

                      KELTNER
          Helmut, don't.

     But Helmut shakes him off and hurries away.

     The other prisoners notice where he is headed and exchange 
     looks.  Keltner shakes his head.  Galt's eyes narrow as he 
     watches Helmut run off after the guard.

                      GALT
               (loudly)
          He's the one we can thank for the 
          diet.

     MED. SHOT - GUARD - MOVING

     The CAMERA MOVES BACKWARD as the Guard strides toward it, 
     his face sour.  Behind him we can see Helmut running to catch 
     up to him.  When he is close enough...

                      HELMUT
          Sir?  Corporal...

     The guard stops and turns so abruptly that Helmut almost 
     runs into him.

                      GUARD
          What?

                      HELMUT
               (obsequiously)
          Doork.  Helmut Doork.  Remember?  
          The papers... You said... Remember 
          the special forms for the Gestapo to 
          review my case.

                      GUARD
          No papers.

     He stalks off.  Helmut starts to say something more but thinks 
     better of it.  Crushed, he starts back towards his barracks, 
     head down.  He walks sadly for several steps, then looks up 
     and stops, his expression changing to one of uneasiness.

     MED. SHOT - PRISONERS - HELMUT'S POV

     A dozen of Helmut's barracks-mates, including Galt, Uhlmann, 
     Adolf, Ludwig, Herman, the Stout Prisoner, several of the 
     New Prisoners, are drifting across the yard towards him, and 
     the looks on many faces bode no good for Helmut.

     FULL SHOT - HELMUT, PRISONERS

     The men converge and form a half circle around him.

     As the men close in on him, he moves back until we cna see 
     the barbed wire fence behind him.  Helmut senses their 
     disposition and remains warily silent.  Keltner and Franz 
     stand slightly behind the pack.

                      GALT
          What'd you say now, Mr. Doork, 
          Almighty!
               (to men)
          Last night he wouldn't give us a 
          laugh.  Today they won't give us 
          food.

                      LUDWIG
               (venomously)
          What were you doing?  Making a deal 
          with your guard pal to slip you some 
          food?

                      HELMUT
               (indignantly)
          No!  I was asking him about the forms 
          he'd promised to get me.
               (admonishing)
          Because of last night... I'm not 
          getting them.

     Keltner, seeing how disappointed Helmut is, moves up through 
     the group.

                      KELTNER
               (encouragingly)
          When this blows over, Helmut, we'll...

                      LUDWIG
               (interrupting)
          Don't feel sorry for him.  He's got 
          no one to blame but himself.  The 
          whole thing was his doing.

                      ADOLF
          He's been telling us how great he 
          is; how funny.  Why?  Why couldn't 
          he have done a trick or two for us?

                      UHLMANN
          The Reverend did a turn.  What's so 
          special about him?

     The men voice agreement... Helmut should have performed.  
     Helmut starts to go around one end of the semi-circle but 
     the men bar his way.

                      KELTNER
          Don't start anything here.  We're in 
          enough trouble.

     The other prisoners in the b.g., those who have remained in 
     the yard to see what was going to happen to the men of 
     barracks H, sense trouble, the kind they want no part of, 
     and begin scurrying back to their own barracks.

                      UHLMANN
          We're not starting anything, we're 
          finishing something.

                      GALT
          We've decided Doork here is going to 
          keep us laughing so hard we won't be 
          able to hear our stomachs growling.

                      STOUT PRISONER
          Better hurry it up, clown.  'Cause 
          my stomach's growling already. Can 
          you hear it?

                      HERMAN
          Hear it!  The whole place hears it.

     The men take a few steps toward Helmut as they call for him 
     to perform.

                      MEN
          Yeah, Doork, do a trick. How about 
          that night in Munich when they 
          wouldn't stop laughing.  How about 
          it, Doork? Come on, just a little 
          trick.  Give us one laugh.  That's 
          all we're asking for.  Come on, 
          Helmut, do something.

     Helmut, hoping to stall the inevitable, still hoping to 
     preserve for a while longer his beautiful myth of being a 
     great clown, holds up his hands for the men to be quiet.  
     Franz interpreting the gesture as giving in to the demands 
     of the men...

                      FRANZ
               (excitedly)
          He's going to do it!  He's going to 
          do it!

     The men quiet down and move back a few steps to give Helmut 
     room.

                      HELMUT
               (grandly)
          Nothing pleases an artist more than 
          to perform.  I'm going to do a real 
          show for you.  All I ask is that you 
          give me a little time...  time to 
          get things together...  things I can 
          use as props...  I'll even try to 
          make a costume, and...

                      ADOLF
          You don't need a costume.  We've got 
          imagination.

                      (TO MEN)
          Right?

     Murmurs of agreement.

                      HERMAN
          Do the drunk pretzel like the kid 
          suggested last night.

                      GALT
               (commanding)
          And do it now, clown.  No more 
          stalling.

     Helmut, still trying to hold on to his dream of greatness, 
     draws himself up proudly and begins to move forward.

                      HELMUT
          Let me through.

                      ADOLF
          Aren't we good enough for you?

                      LUDWIG
          He'd do his tricks fast enough if 
          his guard pal asked him.  Wouldn't 
          you, Doork?

     As the mention of the word "guard" the mood of the men turns 
     ugly.

     MED. SHOT - PRISONERS - HELMUT'S POV

     Their faces show their determination that Helmut will perform 
     or... else.

                      KELTNER
          Do something, Karl.  For God's sake, 
          do something.

                      GALT
          And be sure it's funny.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT, GALT

     Helmut is frightened.  He strains to look beyond the men for 
     help.  He opens his mouth to scream for the Guard, but Galt 
     puts his hand over Helmut's mouth.

                      GALT
               (his face pressed 
               close to Helmut's)
          You make us scream... scream with 
          laughter...  or I'll tear you to 
          shreds on the wire.

     Galt presses Helmut right up to the barbed wire fence so he 
     can feel the barbs in his back.

     FULL SHOT - HELMUT, MEN

     Galt takes his hand away from Helmut's mouth.  Helmut doesn't 
     utter a sound.  He knows that Galt and the men mean business 
     and he now must do something.  He nods his head.

                      HELMUT
          All right... all right.

     The men move back to give him room.  Frantically, he tries 
     to think of something to do... he knows it must be great... 
     or else his myth will explode.  He walks around in a little 
     circle, trying, trying to think of something.  Finally he 
     faces them.  He bows his legs and pretends he's a bow-legged 
     man trying to walk a high wire, but he's so frightened the 
     result is pathetic, not funny.

     PAN SHOT - PRISONERS

     The camera works across their faces, which are expressionless.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT

     Seeing that he is getting no reaction from his "audience", 
     Helmut tries something else.

     He pulls his shirt over his head and walks around like a 
     headless man.  He pretends to trip over some unseen object, 
     peers through the front of his shirt at it, and stamps on 
     the object.  Again he tries to walk over it, and again he 
     slips.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT, MEN

     as Helmut starts to repeat the same routine, many of the men 
     are openly contemptuous.  Galt wears a smirk.  Keltner, unable 
     to watch Helmut's degradation, moves away.  Others express 
     their disappointment, their disdain.

                      MEN
          If he's Germany's greatest clown, 
          God help the Fatherland.  Doork, the 
          Great!  You got paid for that?  To 
          go without food is bad enough, but 
          to have to watch that!

                      2ND NEW PRISONER
               (accusingly)
          You're not the clown I saw.  You 
          lied.  You're big all right.  A big 
          liar.

                      4TH NEW PRISONER
               (contemptuously)
          And I was going to tell my kids!

                      UHLMANN
          He's no clown.  Not even a bad one.

                      HELMUT
          I am.  I am a clown!

     They move away from him.

                      HELMUT
               (continuing)
          Give me a chance.  I just got started.

     But the men continue to walk away.  Helmut tries to do a 
     hand stand, but his hands slip in the mud, and he lands 
     ignominously on all fours.  When he looks up, only Adolf, 
     Galt and Uhlmann remain.

                      ADOLF
               (sadly)
          That's what we've been eating our 
          hearts out to see!
               (a beat)
          You stink.  You really stink.

                      HELMUT
          I... I slipped.   I can do it.

     Seeing the disbelief on their faces, Helmut becomes almost 
     hysterical.  He is still on his knees.

                      HELMUT
          I am a clown.   I am.  I am.

     He pounds on the ground in frustration.  Galt spits 
     contemptuously, and the three start to leave.  Galt turns 
     back, looks down at Helmut.  Very deliberately, he comes 
     forward to stand at a mud puddle.

                      GALT
          Doork the Great.

     With that he kicks a shower of mud directly into Helmut's 
     face.

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT

     The mud splatters over his face.  He cries out.  His hands 
     go to his eyes instinctively.  he kneels there, rocking back 
     and forth in misery.  Then from o.s., we HEAR a tiny, 
     tentative laugh -- the tiniest laugh ever heard.  Helmut 
     looks up quickly.  He isn't sure that he heard it.

     Then it comes again, a little stronger.  He looks around 
     quickly to see who has come back to taunt him, to ridicule 
     him.

     LONG SHOT - PRISON YARD - HELMUT'S POV

     The yard is empty except for a few prisoners from other 
     barracks way off on the other side.

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT

     He is puzzled.  Then again he hears the laugh o.s.  He turns 
     slowly to look behind him.

     MED. SHOT - BOY - HELMUT'S POV

     On the other side of the fence stands a wide-eyed boy of 
     about eight, who is watching Helmut timidly.  The ragged 
     youngster laughs again, hesitantly, as if unsure what Helmut 
     is doing is supposed to be funny, but finding it so 
     nevertheless.

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT

     He looks uncertainly at the youngster.  Is the child 
     ridiculing him, too?  He leans over the mud puddle and looks 
     at his reflection.  He likes what he sees.  The mud on his 
     face looks almost like a primitive clown mask.  Very 
     deliberately Helmut scoops up more mud and puts a blob of it 
     on the end of his nose.  He waits for the child's reaction.

     CLOSE SHOT - BOY

     His eyes are laughing, but his little lips are pressed tight 
     together.  He has been taught not to make sounds... not even 
     sounds of laughter.  But finally what he is looking at becomes 
     too much for him and the laughter spills out between his 
     lips as they form a smile.  He laughs delightedly now, 
     satisfied that Helmut is being purposely amusing.

     TWO SHOT - HELMUT, BOY

     Helmut gets to his feet, bows slightly and stiffly to the 
     child, and then attempts another hand stand.  This time he 
     holds himself up for a moment and then deliberately allows 
     himself to fall on his back in the mud.

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT

     As he lands, he quickly glances off towards his barracks, 
     but from the look of disappointment on his face, we know 
     that none of his barracks mates are watching.  When he hears 
     more laughter from o.s., he quickly rolls on his side to 
     look.

     MED. SHOT - CHILDREN - HELMUT'S POV

     Two more youngsters have joined the first, and all are 
     laughing excitedly.  The first child jumps up and down, 
     clapping his hands.

     WIDER ANGLE - FROM THE FENCE - FAVORING HELMUT

     Helmut gets up and bows, more deeply this time, a tribute to 
     the children's vindication for his claim that he is a clown.  
     He turns toward the direction of his barracks.

                      HELMUT
               (screaming at top of 
               voice)
          Come back, damn you, come back.  The 
          children... they're laughing.  They're 
          laughing.  I am a clown.  I am a 
          clown.

     He turns back to the children and again bows.  He quickly 
     leans down, looks at his reflection in the puddle, and scoops 
     up a handful of mud which he plasters on his nose to make a 
     bulbous, artificial proboscis.  He turns back to the children 
     and in pantomime, pretends to see a fly buzzing about and 
     tries to swat it.  The imaginary fly buzzes closer.  The 
     CAMERA MOVES UP to --

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT

     As the "fly" lands on his nose.  He looks cross-eyed at the 
     mud blob, then swats at it.  The blob falls off.

     MED. SHOT - CHILDREN

     There are now nine or ten youngsters at the fence, all 
     squealing with delight.

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT

     He bows again, and as his head comes up he looks o.s. toward 
     his barracks, still hoping that someone will be watching his 
     "great" success.  When he turns back to the children, we see 
     that he continues to smile -- while tears course down his 
     cheeks through the mud still caked on them.

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. MESS HALL - DAY

     The last barracks on the open end of the camp on the political 
     prisoners' side.  Outside the building is a low counter 
     arrangement with two prisoners behind it serving mush and 
     black bread to a long line of men, all of whom carry bowls 
     and spoons.

     This time in mid-July, three weeks after the incident at the 
     fence.  The day is bright and hot.  Our ANGLE FAVORS Helmut 
     as he nears the prisoner who is serving up the mush.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT

     As he moves up to be served and holds out his bowl.  The 
     prisoner - messman spoons a blob of mush into it.  Then he 
     looks around quickly and, before Helmut can pull back his 
     bowl, slops another half spoonful into it with a wink at 
     Helmut, who gives him a grateful smile in return.  Helmut 
     moves on to the bread server, who gives him a big grin as he 
     slips two pieces of bread into the bowl on top of the mush.  
     Helmut hurries away, the CAMERA FOLLOWING him.

     He walks strangely, as if having trouble controlling his own 
     feet.  Helmut ducks around the corner of the barracks nearest 
     the mess hall, then peers cautiously back into the main yard.  
     Satisfied that he hasn't been noticed, he quickly puts one 
     piece of bread into his pocket and takes out his spoon.  
     Holding the second piece of bread beneath the bowl, he wolfs 
     down a few mouthfuls of the mush.  Then he smooths out the 
     remainder with the spoon to make the mush appear untouched. 
      He places the one slice of bread back on top of it, and 
     studies the end result.  Nodding approval, he licks his spoon 
     clean and puts it back in his pocket.  He goes back around 
     the corner of the barracks into the main yard and heads for 
     the next building.

     CLOSE SHOT - BARE FEET

     This pair of massive feet are the property of the Big 
     Prisoner, a massive hulk of a man.

                      OLD PRISONER'S VOICE
          Don't know how you can go without 
          shoes.  Soles of my feet are too 
          sensitive.

     The CAMERA PANS UPWARD to the Big Prisoner and an Old 
     Prisoner, sitting against the side of their hut.  The Old 
     Prisoner, a frail man, with shirt off, is finishing his mush.

                      BIG PRISONER
          It's my stomach that's sensitive.

                      OLD PRISONER
               (looking o.s., smiles)
          Here comes your second helping.

     As Helmut's feet walk into FRAME and stop next to the Big 
     Prisoner, we see the reason for his peculiar walk.  He is 
     wearing a pair of enormous shoes, many sizes too large for 
     him and cut open along the soles from the toes to the insteps 
     so that they flap as he moves along.

     ANOTHER ANGLE

     as Helmut joins them and holds out his bowl of bread and 
     mush to the Big Prisoner.

                      HELMUT
          Here.

     Still grinning, the Big Prisoner puts his empty bowl on the 
     ground beside him and takes Helmut's bowl.  Holding the bread 
     aside, he digs into the mush.  Helmut watches him eat, his 
     own hunger written all over his face.  After a few bites, 
     this makes the Big Prisoner a little self-concious.

                      BIG PRISONER
          How're the shoes?

                      HELMUT
          Perfect.

     The Big Prisoner nods and goes back to eating, satisfied 
     that he has made a fair bargain and shouldn't be embarrassed 
     about taking Helmut's food.

                      HELMUT
          Don't forget the bowl.

     The Big Prisoner, his mouth full of mush, only nods.  Helmut, 
     tearing his eyes from the food, moves off.  The Big Prisoner 
     watches him go.  Suddenly, he looks down at the departing 
     Helmut's feet, and his face darkens.

                      BIG PRISONER
               (irked)
          Hey, Doork!

     Helmut stops and turns as the Big Prisoner shoves himself 
     away from the hut and goes to him, staring down at the shoes.

                      BIG PRISONER
          My shoes!

     The Big Prisoner reaches out with the large toe of one bare 
     foot and lifts up the flapping toe of one of Helmut's shoes.  
     He lets it drop again.

                      BIG PRISONER
          I said you could use 'em, not ruin 
          'em.

                      HELMUT
          I had to fix them this way...  for 
          the act, you know.  Wait till you 
          see how funny it is.

                      BIG PRISONER
          Yeah.  But will I feel like laughing 
          when it gets cold!

                      HELMUT
          Don't worry.

                      BIG PRISONER
          Worry!  I'm the one who'll get frost 
          bitten toes, not you.

                      HELMUT
          When I return them, they'll be like 
          new.  I promise.

     The Old Prisoner has finished his mush and puts his bowl 
     down on the ground and moves forward to join Helmut and the 
     Big Prisoner.

                      BIG PRISONER
          For what you've done to my shoes I 
          should get more food.

                      OLD PRISONER
          He's got to have something to eat.

     The Big Prisoner looks at him questioningly.

                      OLD PRISONER
               (continuing)
          If he gives you his other meal...  
          he'll starve to death.  Then you 
          won't get anything.

     This reasoning makes sense to the Big Prisoner.

                      BIG PRISONER
               (to Helmut)
          Remember... you fix them before you 
          bring 'em back.

                      HELMUT
          Promise.

     Helmut shakes his head "yes", turns and quickly hustles off 
     in the direction of his own barracks, the CAMERA MOVING with 
     him.  After a few steps.

                      BIG PRISONER'S VOICE
          Doork!

     MED. SHOT - BIG PRISONER - HELMUT'S POV

     The Big Prisoner looks at Helmut, then at the piece of bread 
     Helmut had given him.  His manner is self-conscious.  He 
     tosses the piece of bread to Helmut.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT, BIG PRISONER, OLD PRISONER

     Helmut catches the bread, his smile expressing his thanks.  
     The Old Prisoner puts his arm around the Big Prisoner's 
     shoulder, while the Big Prisoner tries not to show that he 
     is pleased with himself for his "generous" act.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT

     Taking bites of the bread, Helmut, rather jauntily, lopes 
     off toward his own barracks.  As he moves among the other 
     prisoners, the CAMERA MOVING with him, we see many of them 
     point or nod toward Helmut and smile good-naturedly.  Helmut 
     is completely unaware of them, so lost is he in his own 
     thoughts.

     EXT. BARRACKS H - MED. SHOT - KELTNER, FRANZ, HERMAN - DAY

     They sit in the shade beside their barracks.  Herman is using 
     his empty bowl as a fan.  Keltner is just finishing his food.  
     Franz is examining his jacket, his empty bowl beside him on 
     the ground.

                      FRANZ (IRRITATED)
          I mean it this time.

                      KELTNER
          Don't tell us.  Tell him.

     Franz holds up the tattered jacket to show that a button is 
     missing.

                      FRANZ
          What am I supposed to do? Use pins?

                      HERMAN
          Who has a pin?

     Keltner chuckles.

                      FRANZ
          You can laugh.  He isn't always after 
          you for something.

                      KELTNER
          No?

     He fishes in a pocket and pulls out a large piece of chalk, 
     holds it up.

                      FRANZ
          What's that?

                      KELTNER
          Chalk.

                      FRANZ
          What for?

                      KELTNER (SHRUGS)
          Says he can mash it into a powder 
          and put it on his face.

     Herman stops fanning along enough to ask...

                      HERMAN
          Where'd you get it?

                      KELTNER
          From a guard.

     Astonished, Herman and Franz look at him questioningly.

                      KELTNER
               (lowers his voice)
          A very bad Nazi.  Still has a heart.

     Herman and Franz smile.  Then Franz holds up his tattered 
     coat.

                      FRANZ
          I wish he'd have a heart and use 
          someone else's coat. Or better yet -- 
          his own.

                      KELTNER
               (looking o.s. and 
               nodding)
          Ask him.

     WIDER ANGLE - FAVORING HELMUT

     As he comes flapping up, still munching on the piece of bread 
     given to him by the Big Prisoner.  Keltner holds out the 
     chalk to him.

                      KELTNER
          Finally got it.

     Helmut takes it and examines it in a very professional manner.  
     Herman and Franz exchange looks.  Keltner waits for Helmut 
     to speak.

                      KELTNER
               (a little annoyed)
          Isn't that what you wanted?

                      HELMUT
               (holding up the chalk)
          This will do more for the act than 
          anything.  Wait'll you see!

                      KELTNER
               (a sigh of relief)
          For a moment there you had me worried.

                      FRANZ
               (indicating bread 
               Helmut's nibbling on)
          I see you got smart.

                      HELMUT
          His conscience bothered him.

                      KELTNER
          I thought he would kill you when he 
          saw what you had done to his shoes.

                      HELMUT
               (sheepishly)
          So did I.

     The men laugh.

                      FRANZ
          I don't know what I'm laughing at...  
          look at what he's doing to my coat.
               (holds it up)
          Look at it!  Yesterday a button off.

     And you've got it ripped here under the arm.  Besides all 
     that falling down isn't doing it any good.

                      HELMUT
               (firmly)
          I've got to have it.  It is the only 
          one I can get on and still is tight 
          enough to look funny.

                      FRANZ
          At the rate you are tearing it up, 
          it's going to look a lot funnier.

     ANOTHER ANGLE

     SHOOTING PAST Helmut and group and in f.g. toward the main 
     yard, where we see Galt and Uhlmann approaching.  During the 
     ensuing dialogue, Galt spots Helmut, nudges Uhlmann and 
     together they come toward him.

                      KELTNER
          Give in, Franz.  You know he's going 
          to talk you out of it again.

                      HELMUT
          I'll be careful.  I swear. Besides, 
          I've got to have it. I explained 
          before...  a clown can't change his 
          costume.  It's his trademark.

                      FRANZ
          I know... I know... but...

     Galt and Uhlmann join the group, looking to start trouble.

                      GALT
               (interrupting)
          Why should he give it to a Jew clown?  
          Right, kid?

                      FRANZ
          That's got nothing to do with it.

                      GALT
          What's the matter with you bastards 
          anyway?  All he ever did for us was 
          cause trouble, but for them...
               (nodding toward the 
               other side)
          ... he can't do enough.
               (a beat)
          I say he's one of them.

                      KELTNER
               (coolly)
          If he were, he'd be over there

     Through this Helmut remains silent -- his eyes focused on 
     the coat.

                      GALT
          That's where he belongs.

     Franz and Keltner get to their feet.  Herman remains seated.

                      FRANZ
          What're you so hot about?  It's no 
          skin off your...

                      UHLMANN
               (cutting in)
          We've got a good reason for not liking 
          them.

                      GALT
          If it wasn't for them... we wouldn't 
          be in here.

     This surprises the men.  Herman gets to his feet.

                      HERMAN
          What'd you mean?

                      UHLMANN
          A bunch of them got picked up with 
          papers we'd sold them.   And what'd 
          they do?  Turn us in, they did.  The 
          ungrateful...

                      KELTNER
          So that was it!  Counterfeit papers.  
          I can imagine the prices.

                      GALT
          Supply and demand, Reverend.  Supply 
          and demand.

     Deliberately, Franz hands his coat to Helmut.

                      FRANZ
          Take it, Doork -- anytime you want 
          it.

     Helmut accepts the coat... nodding his head in the gracious 
     manner of a ruler accepting homage from a faithful subject.  
     He turns smartly and slowly struts away with as much dignity 
     as he can muster in his big shoes which flap with every step 
     he takes.  The others stand and stare at Galt and Uhlmann.

                      UHLMANN
          What's so terrible about what we 
          did?  Lot of them got out of the 
          country with our papers.  They were 
          damn good counterfeits.

     Keltner, without a word, turns and goes off after Helmut.

                      GALT
               (calling to Keltner, 
               very proudly)
          And what's more, we never charged 
          for children.  Never.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT, KELTNER

     As Keltner catches up with Helmut.  The CAMERA MOVES BACK as 
     they walk along the side of the barracks toward the door.

                      KELTNER
          I've been meaning to ask you.  Heard 
          anymore about the request for a review 
          of your case?

     Helmut doesn't hear him as he's deep in his own thoughts.

                      HELMUT
          Did you hear the laughs I got 
          yesterday?

     Keltner nods.

                      HELMUT
          Not just from the children... but 
          the adults, too.

     You know where a lot of clowns make a big mistake?  They 
     play just for the children.

     They forget... it's the parents, the adults that buy the 
     tickets.

                      KELTNER
          Never thought of that.

     Helmut stops, faces Keltner, a sly smile on his face.

                      HELMUT
          They said I couldn't come up with 
          anything new.

     Keltner looks puzzled.

                      HELMUT
          At the circus.  Schmidt and the rest.  
          Wait'll they see my act now.  It's 
          funny.  Really funny.
               (a beat)
          Isn't it?

                      KELTNER
          The children certainly enjoy it.

     Helmut begins to move along again with Keltner following.

                      HELMUT
          What I needed was time.  Time to 
          concentrate on new material.  A man's 
          got to have time alone.

                      KELTNER
               (glancing around)
          You call this being alone?

     Helmut takes a few more steps then stops short.

                      HELMUT
          Do you think... maybe... they'd let 
          me go to other camps and entertain?

     Keltner is about to say something... but shrugs his shoulders.  
     He knows there's not much point in trying to make Helmut 
     look at things the way they really are.  Helmut starts to 
     walk again.

                      HELMUT
          I'd have to get to the Commandant.  
          Would need his permission.

     They arrive at the steps to the barracks.  Helmut swings 
     Franz's coat over his shoulder as he starts up the steps.

                      HELMUT
          If you have time later, I'd like you 
          to see something I've been working 
          on.  I hunch down and do a tiny 
          soldier parading.  Think they'll 
          like it?

                      KELTNER
               (pointedly)
          Who?  The adults?

                      HELMUT
               (matter of fact)
          The children, of course.

                      KELTNER
          I thought the smart clown only played 
          to the adults.

     Helmut, caught in a contradiction of his own "theory" of 
     clowning, gives Keltner an annoyed look, then goes into the 
     barracks letting the door slam behind him.

     CLOSE SHOT - KELTNER

     As he stands at the bottom of the steps -- he shakes his 
     head and smiles as he marvels at the change taking place in 
     the pompous Helmut as the little gentle clown within him 
     struggles to emerge.

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. PRISON YARD - PAN SHOT - CHILDREN - DAY

     The CAMERA is PANNING across the faces of about forty children 
     behind the fence as they watch Helmut o.s.  Some of them are 
     laughing; some clapping; some squealing with glee, and a few 
     just watching quietly, but with laughter in their eyes.  
     Behind them, near the barracks on the non-Aryan side, a number 
     of adults also are looking on, but they hang back, fearful 
     that getting too close to the fence might provoke the always 
     anticipated wrath of the guards.

     EXT. PRISON YARD - FULL SHOT - DAY

     We see now that Helmut on his side of the fence is performing 
     for the children on the other side of the menacing barbed 
     wire fence.  Behind him, also at a safe distance because 
     they still aren't certain of the official reaction to all of 
     this, a number of his fellow political prisoners are watching 
     his antics.  But, in spite of his talk about the importance 
     of playing to the adults -- it is the children that Helmut 
     plays to -- and it is for their laughter that he listens.  
     The CAMERA MOVES IN to --

     MED. FULL SHOT - HELMUT

     And we see that he has used the chalk to whiten his face.  
     With charcoal he has blackened his eyebrows, formed a wide 
     black mouth and drawn lines down over his eyelids to his 
     cheekbones, giving him the appearance of a clown at once sad 
     and happy.  At the moment he is coatless, but Franz's coast 
     lies nearby on the ground.  For the stunt he is doing now 
     Helmut carries the remains of an old broom and a piece of 
     cardboard.  He is trying to sweep a small heap of dirt he 
     has gathered onto the cardboard, but each time he tries, the 
     dirt goes over the cardboard and he must sweep it into a 
     pile again.  After a few attempts he feigns exasperation and 
     ponders the problem.  Inspiration comes.  He sweeps the dirt 
     into a pile again, bends over and very carefully sweeps it 
     into the front of one of his shoes, holding up the split top 
     to let it in.  This accomplished, he is very proud of himself, 
     but when he tries to take a step, some of the dirt comes 
     out.  Frustrated, he ponders again, and again has an 
     inspiration.  He removes the shoe and puts it under his arm.  
     But as he walks away with it, all the dirt slides out through 
     the open toe.  The children roar with delight.

     CLOSE SHOT - LITTLE GIRL

     She is a flaxen-haired youngster of about five who holds a 
     weathered rag doll as she jumps up and down for sheer joy at 
     Helmut's performance.

     CLOSE SHOT - LITTLE BOY

     He is a completely delighted boy of perhaps seven.  Each 
     time Helmut does something he particularly enjoys he hugs 
     himself and spins around.

     CLOSE SHOT - BROTHER AND SISTER

     The girl is no more than four; the boy about eight.  He clings 
     to her hand as they watch Helmut, unsmiling, perhaps not 
     understanding.  The boy looks at his sister, and a tiny smile 
     tugs at her mouth.  The boy smiles back.  The girl giggles.  
     The boy laughs outright.  They have re-discovered happiness.

     They look back at Helmut, both laughing.

     CLOSE SHOT - SISTERS

     The older girl is ten or eleven; her sister five or six, 
     tugs at her arm, and the older girl bends down to her.  The 
     younger girl whispers to her, pointing to Helmut, and the 
     older girl picks her up.  The little one puts her arms tightly 
     around her sister's neck.  Both laugh merrily.

     MED. FULL SHOT - HELMUT

     He is putting on Franz's too-small jacket.  He tries to button 
     it, but it won't go around him.  He sucks in his belly, but 
     then his pants begin to slip, and he grabs at them with an 
     embarrassed look at the laughing children.

     Deciding that the only way to button the coat is to hunch 
     his shoulders, he tries that, but now his shoulders must 
     remain hunched.  He manages to pick up the broom and puts it 
     over his shoulder, playing soldier.  But when he tries to 
     snap to attention, the coat pops open again, bringing another 
     roar of laughter from Helmut's audience.

     Now he marches a few steps toward the CAMERA, stops, snappily 
     puts the rifle down at rest position and salutes -- knocking 
     himself flat.  Another roar of laughter.  As it swells, we --

     PAN SHOT - JEWISH PRISONERS

     The laughter o.s. continues to swell as the CAMERA PANS across 
     the faces of the adult Jewish prisoners huddled near their 
     huts.  They smile, fearfully at first, then break into 
     timorous laughter.

     ARYAN PRISONERS - PAN SHOT

     As the laughter swells even more, the CAMERA MOVES over the 
     faces of the political prisoners on Helmut's side of the 
     camp.  They, too, are laughing -- some tolerantly; some at 
     Helmut rather than with him, but they are laughing.

     As the laughter continues to SWELL, the CAMERA PANS over to 
     yard-guard.  He is trying very hard not to laugh.  The result 
     is a self-conscious giggle.

     As the laughter grows even louder, the CAMERA PANS as though 
     wafted on the waves of laughter, up to a guardtower, and we 
     see two rifle-armed soldiers in the tower watching the 
     performance below them.  They gesture in Helmut's direction 
     and laugh.

     The CAMERA continues to PAN over to the administration 
     building and UP to an open window on the second floor.

                                           CUT TO:

     INT. COMMANDANT'S OFFICE - FULL SHOT - DAY

     LT. SCHARFF, handsome, mid-30's, stands with his back to 
     CAMERA at an open window in a small, but luxuriously furnished 
     office.  The window through which he is looking opens onto 
     the prison yard.  An AIDE pokes his head in the doorway.

                      AIDE
               (in a loud whisper)
          He's coming back down the hall.

     Scharff nods, quickly closes the window, gives a look around 
     the room, and follows the Aide out.

                                           CUT TO:

     INT. COMMANDANT'S OUTER OFFICE - FULL SHOT

     As Scharff comes through the door from the adjoining room.  
     The Aide is standing in front of a small desk.  Scharff takes 
     his position beside the door into the outer office.  They 
     wait.  After a beat, the room's other door opens and in comes 
     COL. HEINRICH BESTLER, a slightly built, pinch-faced SS 
     officer in his 50's.  Scharff and Aide spring to attention 
     and give him the salute.

                      SCHARFF AND AIDE
          Heil Hitler.

                      BESTLER
          Heil Hitler.
               (striding into his 
               inner office as he 
               passes Scharff)

                      BESTLER
               (continuing)
          Come in.

                                           CUT TO:

     INT. COMMANDANT'S OFFICE - FULL SHOT

     Bestler goes directly to the desk and sits down.  Scharff 
     stands at attention just inside the door.

                      BESTLER
          Oh, stand at ease.  And, close the 
          door.

     Scharff closes the door and moves over to stand near the 
     desk.

                      BESTLER
          I don't have to tell you why your 
          Commandant was relieved of his command 
          here. This prison is a disgrace.  
          Disgrace! The latitude allowed by 
          him will not be tolerated by me.  
          Understand?

     Scharff nods his head.  Bestler gets up from the desk and 
     walks around it.

                      BESTLER
          That includes the staff.  I'm going 
          to turn this place into a model 
          prison, a credit to the Reich.   
          Understand?

     Scharff again nods his head.

                      BESTLER
          Speak up.

                      SCHARFF
          Yes, Colonel.

     Bestler returns to his desk, sits, and opens a folder.  He 
     glances up to study Scharff.

                      BESTLER
          This isn't the first prison the SS 
          has had to take over from the 
          military. Military men are too soft 
          to deal with those...
               (he nods toward the 
               window)
          Scharff starts to speak but quickly 
          changes his mind.

                      SCHARFF
          Yes, sir.

                      BESTLER
          You were about to say something?

                      SCHARFF
          Oh... I... was just going to say 
          that I didn't hold with the soft 
          treatment of the prisoners.

                      BESTLER
          Good!
               (taking papers from 
               folder)
          Our first order of business is to 
          prepare...

     He is interrupted by the SOUND of laughter o.s.  He turns 
     slightly and looks curiously at the window, then turns back 
     to read from the papers in the folder.

                      BESTLER
          Our first order of business is to 
          prepare all non-Aryan prisoners for 
          shipment in two weeks.

                      SCHARFF
          Where are they being sent, Colonel?

                      BESTLER
          Work camps.

     Again the SOUND of laughter from o.s. and Bestler looks 
     quickly at the window, irritated.  Scharff, uncertain of his 
     superior's reaction, tries to cover up.

                      SCHARFF
               (speaking a little 
               louder)
          But we have about 40 children, some 
          only babies, with more scheduled to 
          arrive tomorrow or the next day. 
          They're not going to be much use in 
          a work camp.

                      BESTLER
               (his attention diverted 
               back to Scharff)
          I'm aware of that.  This order covers 
          only the adult prisoners over fifteen.  
          We won't have to wet nurse the 
          children for long.  Other plans are 
          being made for...

     Again he is interrupted by the laughter o.s.

                      BESTLER
          What is that?

     Before Scharff can answer, Bestler goes to the window and 
     opens it.

     PRISON YARD - LONG SHOT

     SHOOTING PAST Bestler through the window, we can see Helmut 
     performing for the children.  Bestler watches for a moment.

                      BESTLER
          What is that supposed to be?

     BESTLER, SCHARFF - MED. SHOT

     Scharff goes to the window and looks over Bestler's shoulder.

                      SCHARFF
          That!  Well, you see, sir, one of 
          the prisoners used to be a circus 
          clown.  Sometimes he gives a little... 
          well...  a sort of show -- for the 
          children.

                      BESTLER
               (turning away from 
               window)
          A show!  Is this a prison camp or a 
          traveling circus!
               (he looks out window 
               again)
          Am I correct in assuming that those 
          children are on the non-Aryan side 
          of the camp?

                      SCHARFF
               (almost in whisper)
          Yes, sir.

                      BESTLER
               (leaving window)
          And the... buffoon?  A German?

                      SCHARFF
          Yes, Colonel.

     Bestler sits on the side of the desk and looks at Scharff, 
     who tries very hard not to show how uncomfortable he is.

                      BESTLER
          Am I to believe you aren't aware of 
          the general order absolutely 
          forbidding fraternization?

                      SCHARFF
               (not worried)
          I know about it, sir.

                      BESTLER
          Close the window.

     Scharff carefully closes the window.  Bestler walks around 
     desk to stand leaning against the wall.

                      BESTLER
          Just what do you think fraternization 
          means, Lieutenant Scharff ?

                      SCHARFF
          Communication.   Social contact.  
          Giving aid, talking...
               (shrugs helplessly)

                      BESTLER
          How long has this been going on?

                      SCHARFF
          Just the last two or three weeks.

                      BESTLER
          And the Commandant approved?

                      SCHARFF
          Well, sir, children are very hard to 
          handle.

                      BESTLER
          This clown!  Who is he?

                      SCHARFF
               (trying hard to 
               remember)
          It's... I know.  It's Doork, the 
          Great.

                      BESTLER
          Not his clown name, you idiot.  His 
          number.  His identification.

                      SCHARFF
          If I have the Colonel's permission 
          to leave, I will check it at once.

                      BESTLER
          Later.  Right now I want these 
          performances halted.  Understand?

                      SCHARFF
          Yes, sir.

     Bestler begins shuffling papers from the folder.  Scharff, 
     uncertain whether he has been dismissed or not, hesitates.  
     Bestler glances up.

                      BESTLER
               (shouting)
          Immediately!

                      SCHARFF
          Yes, sir !

     He salutes and bolts from the room, almost crashing into the 
     door in his flight.

                                           CUT TO:

     PRISON YARD - FULL SHOT - DAY

     Shooting past the children in f.g. to Helmut through the 
     fence, as he bows to the applauding youngsters.  Behind him 
     we can see a number of soldier-guards coming through the 
     cordon of watching prisoners, and waving them to disperse.  
     They do so reluctantly, as the guard from Helmut's barrack 
     moves forward to Helmut, who is just about to start another 
     routine.

                      GUARD
               (shouting)
          That's all.  Show's over.  Everybody 
          clear out.

     Helmut stops, startled.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT, GUARD

     ANGLED to include children across the fence.

                      HELMUT
          What's wrong?

                      GUARD
               (to Helmut)
          Get back to the barrack.
               (to children)
          You heard me.  Show's over.

     The children don't move, but stand staring at Helmut as if 
     waiting for him to tell them what to do.  This frustrates 
     the guard, who isn't accustomed to being questioned.

                      GUARD
          Go on.  Get away.

     Still the children refuse to budge.  Angry, the guard goes 
     close to the fence, waving his arms at them.

                      GUARD
          Move, damn it, before I come over 
          there and...

     The youngsters scuttle back a few feet fearfully, but there 
     they stop, their eyes still on Helmut.  The guard turns to 
     Helmut.

                      GUARD
          Get them moving before somebody gets 
          hurt.

     Helmut goes up to the fence and speaks to the children softly.

                      HELMUT
          That's all the show for today.  Go 
          back inside.

     The children back away with long faces.  Finally convinced 
     that Helmut is through, they turn and wander back toward 
     their barracks, but with many a backward look at him.  Helmut 
     continues to encourage them, as the guard looks on.

                      HELMUT
          That's right now, go along.  I'll 
          see you tomorrow.  Goodbye.  Goodbye.  
          Until tomorrow.

     Many of the children wave to him.  The guard takes Helmut by 
     the arm, turns him toward the barrack and hustles him off.

     MED. TWO SHOT - HELMUT, GUARD

     The CAMERA MOVES BACK as they come toward it, the guard firmly 
     propelling Helmut along.

                      GUARD
          Get inside and take that stuff off 
          your face.

                      HELMUT
          I don't understand.  What's the 
          matter?

                      GUARD
          Orders.  No more shows.

                      HELMUT
          You mean... not ever?

                      GUARD
          That's right.

                      HELMUT
          But we weren't doing any harm.

                      GUARD
          The Commandant thinks you are.

                      HELMUT
          The Commandant?

                      GUARD
          The new Commandant.  He minds.

                      HELMUT
          Just because I make them laugh a 
          little...

                      GUARD
          You know the rule... no mixing with 
          Jews.

                      HELMUT
          I wasn't mixing!  I was only...

     The guard stops him and turns him so that they are face to 
     face.  The CAMERA MOVES UP TO --

     TIGHT TWO SHOT - HELMUT, GUARD

                      GUARD
               (quietly, threatening)
          Look, it's not my order.  It's the 
          Commandant's.
               (more kindly)
          Now do what I tell you and save 
          yourself a lot of grief.

     He pushes Helmut toward his barrack and then turns and walks 
     off, the CAMERA PULLING BACK to --

     WIDER ANGLE

     Helmut watches the guard go, then, dejectedly, shuffles toward 
     his barrack.  As he nears it, Keltner, Franz, Adolf, Herman, 
     Ludwig, and the other regulars intercept him.

     MED. SHOT - GROUP

     They crowd around Helmut, anxious to know what's happened.

                      FRANZ
          What happened?

                      HELMUT
               (still bewildered)
          He says I've got to stop -- with the 
          children.

                      KELTNER
               (nodding)
          I've been expecting it.

                      LUDWIG
          Because they're Jews?

                      KELTNER
          Because of the laughing.

                      HELMUT
          Why should that bother them?

                      KELTNER
          When you rule by fear, laughter is 
          the most frightening sound in the 
          world.

     Silently the men walk up the steps and into the barrack, the 
     CAMERA PANNING with them until we...

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. PRISON YARD - FULL SHOT - DAY

     It is a warm, sunny afternoon and most of the prisoners on 
     both sides of the fence, are out warming their weary bones.  
     On the Aryan side, a number of prisoners, including Ludwig 
     and Herman, are having a makeshift soccer game using a bound 
     bundle of rags for a ball.  They play with fierce rigor for 
     such emaciated men, yelling at each other and kicking up 
     clouds of dust as they try to work off their frustrations.  
     On the non-Aryan side of the fence, the children, now about 
     50 in number, are grouped near the wire barricades staring 
     across it, their faces dour.  It appears they are watching 
     the game.

     MED. LONG SHOT - CHILDREN

     Shooting past the soccer players in f.g. toward the fence.  
     Through the men we can see the children, but the play moves 
     away from them.  They continue to stare straight ahead, 
     obviously watching something else.  Suddenly many of them 
     press close to the fence straining to see.

                                           CUT TO:

     EXT. BARRACK "H" - CHILDREN'S POV

     Helmut can be seen standing in the doorway.  After a beat, 
     he quickly retreats back into the barrack.

                                           CUT TO:

     INT. BARRACK "H" - DAY

     The CAMERA MOVES BACKWARD down the aisle between the bunks 
     as Helmut walks dejectedly down the aisle, nervously fingering 
     his white ascot.  The barrack is empty except for Keltner, 
     who is arranging the sprouts of his potato plant over a little 
     trellis of sticks.  Helmut turns and walks back up the aisle 
     to stand in front of Keltner.

                      HELMUT
          I can't go out there.  I can't take 
          another day of them staring at me.

                      KELTNER
          They'll get over it.  Disappointment 
          is no stranger to those children.

                      HELMUT
          They look at me as though it was all 
          my fault.  Haven't they been told 
          why I can't...

                      KELTNER
          I'm sure they have.

                      HELMUT
          Then why do they stare?

                      KELTNER
               (holding up the plant)
          It's amazing how a thing like this 
          can feed off itself.  Think how lucky 
          we would be if we could do that.

     Helmut glances disinterestedly at the plant as he reaches up 
     to his bunk and brings down the coat belonging to Franz.  He 
     holds coat up for Keltner to see.

                      HELMUT
          I sewed a button on.  Look all right?

                      KELTNER
               (inspecting coat)
          Fine.

     Helmut gently pats the coat, then folds it and puts it back 
     on his bunk.

                      HELMUT
          I did make them laugh.  Didn't I?

     Keltner nods.

                      HELMUT
               (angrily)
          I wish they'd get them out of here.  
          Prison is no place for little 
          children.

                      KELTNER
          We've been all over that before.  
          You've got to stop thinking about 
          them.

                      HELMUT
               (trying to convince 
               himself)
          You're right!  I've got to think of 
          myself.

     Keltner puts the plant under his bunk and gets up.

                      KELTNER
          It's too hot in here.  I'm going to 
          get some air.

                      HELMUT
          Johann... do you think there's any 
          possible way I could talk to the 
          Commandant.  Maybe I could make him 
          understand...

     The sentence trails off as Helmut realizes how useless his 
     suggestion is.

                      KELTNER
          There's nothing you can do... but 
          forget.

                      HELMUT
          How can I!  They were my own very 
          special audience.  And now they stare 
          at me as if I had betrayed them.

                      KELTNER
          They're children, Helmut.  You can't 
          expect them to understand the madness 
          of adults.

                      HELMUT
               (sudden thought)
          If I could talk to them.  To the 
          children themselves -- that would 
          help, wouldn't it?

     Keltner doesn't answer but he watches Helmut with new 
     interest.

                      HELMUT
          If I explain it to them -- then 
          they'll know I am not mad at them.

                      KELTNER
               (very deliberately)
          You go near that fence once again... 
          and you're taking your life in your 
          own hands.  You know that as well as 
          I do.

                      HELMUT
               (pleading)
          I would just need a minute.  A minute 
          to talk to them.

     Helmut goes to the door and looks out.

                                           CUT TO:

     LONG SHOT - CHILDREN AT THE FENCE - HELMUT'S POV

     The children are still pressed against the fence, still trying 
     to get a glimpse of Helmut

                                           CUT TO:

     MED. SHOT - BARRACK "H"

     Helmut stands just inside the doorway... looking out.

                      HELMUT
          I wish to God I didn't care.  I wish 
          to God I could forget them.

     Helmut walks back to Keltner.

                      HELMUT
          But I can't.

     Helmut looks at Keltner, his eyes pleading for help.

                      KELTNER
          I'm going to ask you a question, 
          Helmut, and I want you to think 
          carefully before you answer.

     Helmut nods.

                      KELTNER
          The reason you can't get them out of 
          your mind -- is it because you need 
          them -- for you audience?

     Helmut drops his eyes as he attempts to find the right answer.

                      KELTNER
          I want the truth.

                      HELMUT
               (after a moment)
          I know I can't perform for them 
          anymore.  I know that.
               (a beat)
          I really don't know what the reason 
          is.  I think it's got something to 
          do with... well, I don't want those 
          little ones to think I've turned 
          against them, too.  That's why I've 
          got to do something.  Something.

     Keltner studies Helmut for a moment.

                      KELTNER
          You'll be taking a chance.  A great 
          chance.

     Helmut nods that he know this.

                      KELTNER
               (very definite)
          All right!  Come on then.

                      HELMUT
          Where are you going?

                      KELTNER
          You want to talk to the children?  
          Well, I think I can help you.

                      HELMUT
          There's no reason for you to get 
          involved in this.

                      KELTNER
          Reason?  When war is waged against 
          children!  That is reason enough for 
          the whole damn world to get involved.  
          And it will, believe me, it will.

     Keltner puts his arm around Helmut's shoulder.  Helmut grins, 
     a broad grin of thanks.

                      KELTNER
          So, come on, Doork the Great, let's 
          start getting involved.

     They both walk quickly to the door.

                                           CUT TO:

     EXT. HELMUT'S BARRACK - DAY

     As Keltner and Helmut come out.  In the b.g. we can see the 
     soccer game still going on, the players shouting excitedly 
     at each other.  Keltner surveys the scene for a moment.

                      KELTNER
          Wait here.

     He moves down the line of barracks toward the mess hall.

     EXT. PRISON YARD - FULL SHOT - DAY

     As Keltner moves among the men lounging around the barracks, 
     talking and watching the soccer game.  Trying to appear as 
     nonchalant as possible, we whispers something to a group of 
     prisoners.  They glance back at Helmut and then nod.  Keltner 
     moves on to another group, taking care to avoid the two yard 
     guards, one of which is the guard in charge of Barrack "H".  
     Again Keltner murmurs something to the other prisoners, and 
     again they look at Helmut and nod assent.  Keltner goes on 
     to another group.  As he does, the men in the first group 
     casually disperse and start across the yard toward the fence, 
     moving around the soccer players.  One of them goes up to 
     Ludwig, who is playing in the match, and whispers something 
     to him.  Ludwig nods, and the other prisoners move away.  
     Ludwig runs off chasing the "ball".

     MED. SHOT - LUDWIG

     as he storms into a clutch of players, including Galt, all 
     kicking at the "ball".

                      LUDWIG
               (low to Galt)
          Kessler is going to talk to the 
          children. Cover him.

                      GALT
               (mean)
          Who says so?

                      LUDWIG
               (evenly)
          The Reverend says cover him... so we 
          cover him.

     The players around Galt give him a meaningful look and he 
     gets their message.

                      GALT
          All right!  I was just asking.

     FULL SHOT

     As Keltner's plot takes shape, we see a dozen or so prisoners 
     wander, apparently aimlessly, across the yard and form a 
     spectator's section for the soccer game with their backs to 
     the fence, thus providing a shield between the children and 
     the guards.  The game picks up tempo, but the play somehow 
     stays in the center of the yard, strengthening the shield.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT

     As he watches the plan in action.  Keltner rejoins him.

                      KELTNER
          You know what to do?

     Helmut nods.

                      KELTNER
          Stay behind the men and keep an eye 
          out for the guards on the other side.

                      HELMUT
          Right.

                      KELTNER
          Make it quick.  You won't have much 
          time.

     Helmut nods again and starts away, but Keltner stops him

                      KELTNER
          And Helmut, keep the children quiet.  
          We don't want trouble.

     Helmut nods and moves off across the yard.  The CAMERA FOLLOWS 
     him as he circles around the soccer players, trying to look 
     as if he is just wandering over to join the other spectators.  
     As he nears the other side, the children spot him and react, 
     pressing closer to the fence and pointing to him.

     MED. LONG SHOT - HELMUT

     Shooting past the children in f.g. toward Helmut as he nears 
     the line of prisoners, who continue to ad lib shouts of 
     derision and encouragement to the soccer players.  The 
     children begin ad libbing cries of greeting to Helmut.  He 
     puts his fingers to his lips to silence them and takes his 
     place in the line with his back to them.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT

     as he stands pretending to watch the soccer game with the 
     others.

                      HELMUT
               (shouting)
          Kick it, Ludwig.  Kick it!

     The prisoner next to him gives him a sidelong glance and 
     nods almost imperceptibly.  Quickly, Helmut ducks behind the 
     line.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT

     Behind the line as he scurries, bending over, to the fence.  
     The children flock to him.  The CAMERA FOLLOWS him to the 
     fence.

                      CHILDREN
          Doork, Doork, Doork is back.  It's 
          Doork.  It's Doork.

     Helmut tries to silence their squeals of delight.  Holding a 
     finger to his lips:

                      HELMUT
          Shhh.  Shhhh.  The guards...

     The children quiet down and press closer to the fence.  Helmut 
     drops to his knees, looking around.

                      CHILDREN
          Do a trick, Doork.  Please, Doork, 
          please, please.

                      HELMUT
          No, no.  I can't.  The guards won't 
          let me.  Not now.  Maybe some other 
          day.

     CLOSE SHOT - LITTLE GIRL

     This is the same flaxen-haired little five-year-old with a 
     doll we saw before.  She regards Helmut solemnly.

                      LITTLE GIRL
          They're bad.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT, CHILDREN

     Smiling wryly at the simplicity of this appraisal, Helmut 
     reaches through the fence and pats the head of the girl's 
     doll.

     Eager to touch Helmut, another child take his hand, others 
     grab at his arm.  Still other youngsters, following this 
     lead, try to reach through the fence to touch him.  Obviously 
     enjoying this adulation, Helmut takes as many of the little 
     hands as he can, squeezing them affectionately.  Only one 
     group of eight children hangs back.  They do not seem to 
     understand what this is all about.  Their little faces are 
     fearful, yet they are fascinated by Helmut.  Suddenly one 
     little boy gives a yelp of pain and backs away from the wire, 
     clutching his forearm.

                      HELMUT
          What is it?  What happened?

                      LITTLE GIRL
          He hurt himself.

     Wide-eyed with fright, the little boy takes his hand away 
     from his arm to reveal a nasty looking scratch from one of 
     the barbs on the fence.  Seeing his own injury, the youngster 
     bursts into tears.

                      HELMUT
          Shhh.  Shhh.  Don't cry.  It's going 
          to be all right.
               (to the other children)
          Be careful when you're near this 
          fence.

     He consoles the little boy, who continues to cry and holds 
     up his wounded arm for Helmut to see.  Helmut looks around 
     frantically, as if hoping to find help somewhere.  Then he 
     quickly removes his ascot -- his precious trademark, the 
     symbol of his self-accorded status -- and hands it through 
     the fence.

                      HELMUT
          Here, wrap this around it.  I'll 
          make it all better.

     The little boy goes on crying, but some of the other children 
     take the cravat and fashion it into a crude bandage around 
     the youngster's arm.  It fails to silence the boy's crying, 
     however.

                      HELMUT
               (worried)
          Hush now.  Stop crying.  Please.  
          Look... Look at this.

     He begins shuffling around on his knees, imitating a duck in 
     an effort to appease the crying child.  As he goes, Helmut 
     quacks softly.  The boy stops crying, but his face remains 
     unhappy.  The other children laugh in spite of Helmut's 
     efforts to keep them quiet, all but the group of eight 
     youngsters who only stare at Helmut in awe.  Seeing that he 
     is making progress with the crying child, Helmut next pulls 
     his coat up over his head and, still on his knees, moves 
     around like a headless man, groping ahead with his hands.

     CLOSE SHOT - LITTLE BOY

     His frown gradually dissolves and, in spite of his sniffling, 
     he smiles, timorously at first, then broadly.  Finally, he 
     laughs.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT, CHILDREN

     Helmut shrugs his jacket back into place and smiles at the 
     boy.

                      HELMUT
          There, that's better.  No more crying 
          now.

     For the first time he notices the other group of frowning 
     children.  Among the other smiling and laughing youngsters, 
     they seem to stand out.  When Helmut fastens a quizzical 
     look on them, they back away a little, fearfully.

                      HELMUT
          What's the matter with them?

                      LITTLE GIRL
          They're new.  We can't understand 
          them.  All they do is cry.

                      OLDER BOY
          They're all the way from 
          Czechoslovakia.

     The eight just start at him wordlessly, their fear naked in 
     their eyes.

                      HELMUT
               (to the silent ones)
          There's nothing to be afraid of.  
          Everything is all right.

     When there is no reaction from the children, who obviously 
     don't understand him, Helmut looks over his shoulder, 
     wondering if he has time.

     MED. LONG SHOT - PRISONERS - HELMUT'S POV

     The prisoners are still rooting for the soccer players, but 
     as Helmut looks, Adolf, in the middle of the cheering section, 
     turns and sees him.

                      ADOLF
               (a hushed call)
          Hurry up.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT, CHILDREN

     Helmut nods to Adolf and then turns back to the youngsters, 
     afraid but still unable to tear himself away.

                      HELMUT
          Here.  Look.  I'll show you... No 
          noise now.

     In pantomime, he pretends to pull a hair from his head and 
     threads it through an imaginary needle.  Finally accomplishing 
     this, he pretends to be sewing a button on his jacket, holding 
     the thumb of his left hand under the button while he sews 
     with his right.  When he has finished, he pantomimes that he 
     has sews his thumb to the jacket.  He pretends to be 
     embarrassed and tries to hide his hand in his trouser pocket, 
     but in order to put his hand in his pocket the jacket goes 
     too.  The children giggle, then roar with laughter at his 
     frantic efforts to detach his thumb from his jacket.

     The silent children press closer to watch Helmut's antics.  
     Some look at each other and smile, then grin.  Suddenly the 
     entire group is laughing.  Helmut holds up his hands for 
     silence, but the grin on his face says he loves it.

                      HELMUT
          No, no, be quiet.  Be quiet.  Shhh.  
          Shhhh.

     The children go on laughing as if this is just part of the 
     game.

     MED. LONG SHOT - TOWER GUARDS

     The SOUND of the children's laughter floats up to two guards 
     in a tower on the non-Aryan side of camp.  One of them, who 
     has been watching the soccer game below, nudges his partner 
     and points down to Helmut.

     LONG SHOT - PRISON YARD - GUARDS' POV

     Between the children at the fence and the line of soccer 
     spectators we can see only the top of Helmut's head bobbing 
     up and down.  But that is enough.

     MED. LONG SHOT - TOWER GUARDS

     After a long look, one of the guards picks up a telephone 
     and starts to make a call.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT, CHILDREN

     Helmut seems to have thrown caution away under the stimulus 
     of the children's laughter.  He is on his feet trying a hand 
     spring.  He lands flat on his back, but rolls over on his 
     side and grins broadly at his audience, which laughs 
     appreciatively.  This is the old Doork.  Their Doork.  Again 
     Helmut tries the hand spring and again he flops.

     FULL SHOT - PRISON YARD

     A HIGH ANGLE with Helmut and the children in f.g. and beyond 
     them the Aryan side of the yard.  The soccer game is still 
     in progress, with the spectators on both sides of the action 
     whooping it up.  Then in b.g. we see two soldiers, two SS 
     officers, and the guard in charge of barracks "H", come 
     bursting through the spectators near the huts and into the 
     game itself.  The players slowly subside as they realize 
     what is happening.  They watch the guard cross the yard.  
     The cheering trails off, and the yard becomes strangely quiet, 
     the prisoners' warning to Helmut.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT, CHILDREN

     Oblivious to all this in his joy at performing for the 
     children again, Helmut is just pretending to slip on something 
     underfoot.  His arms flay the air as he tries to regain his 
     balance, but he falls.  Through this, however, the children 
     seem to be watching something behind Helmut, and when he 
     lands on the ground, they do not laugh.

     Again their faces are frightened as they look o.s.  Helmut 
     looks at them, puzzled.  Then, realizing that something is 
     wrong, he turns and looks up from the ground.

     ANOTHER ANGLE

     SHOOTING PAST Helmut in f.g. toward the guard, SS men, and 
     soldiers, who have come through the line of spectators and 
     stand glowering at him.  The prisoners have moved back, warily 
     watching for the next move.

                      GUARD
          You wouldn't listen, would you?

     Almost wearily, he goes to the fence.  This isn't something 
     he likes, but his authority is at stake here, and he has no 
     choice.  As the CAMERA PANS him to the fence we see that 
     some non-Aryan adults have drifted over to see what the 
     disturbance is.

                      GUARD
               (to the children)
          Go on.  Get back.

     The children don't move.  Their eyes are on Helmut.  The 
     guard shouts over to the adults standing behind the children.

                      GUARD
          You back there, get them out of here.

     The adults begin to gather up the children.

                      HELMUT
          They had nothing to do with it.  It 
          was all my doing.

     The guard turns and comes up to face Helmut.  He studies him 
     for a moment, then hits him a vicious backhand slap across 
     the face.  Taken by surprise, Helmut staggers backward and 
     falls.  A murmur runs through the prisoners.  The children 
     still near the fence, cry out with alarm.  Seeing their 
     terror, Helmut is determined to make it look like just another 
     act.  With a painful effort he gets to his feet, smiles at 
     the children, turns and salutes the guard, knocking himself 
     down again.  A couple of children giggle.  The FIRST SS 
     OFFICER quickly steps forward to stand behind the guard.

     He holds a swagger stick in his right hand, which he 
     repeatedly whacks into the palm of his left hand.  He looks 
     down at Helmut.

                      FIRST SS OFFICER
          Get up.

     Helmut struggles to his feet.  He glances over at the 
     children.  They are all watching him.  He takes a deep breath, 
     winks at the little ones, then salaams before the SS Officer 
     and the guard.  Some of the children giggle.  This infuriates 
     the SS officer.  He raises the swagger stick and brings it 
     down hard on Helmut's head knocking him to his knees.  The 
     children scream with terror.  The SS Officer raises the stick 
     to hit Helmut again, but Keltner, in an almost instinctive 
     reaction, catches hold of his arm.

                      KELTNER
          The children! Not in front of the 
          children!

     TWO SHOT - FIRST SS OFFICER - KELTNER

     The SS Officer turns and brings the stick down on Keltner.  
     He hits him over and over, each blow more vicious.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT - FRIGHTENED CHILDREN IN B.G.

     Helmut turns away from the beating, pulls his jacket up over 
     his head and starts to walk around like a headless man 
     stumbling and falling over his own feet.  The children, many 
     still screaming, turn their eyes away from the SS Officer to 
     watch Helmut's antics.

     FULL SHOT - FRANZ, GALT, UHLMANN, LUDWIG, ADOLF, HERMAN AND 
     OTHER PRISONERS

     The horror-stricken men stand frozen as the SS Officer 
     continues to hit Keltner until he drops to the ground.  
     Suddenly Franz breaks away from the men and charges at the 
     First SS Officer.

     MED. SHOT - SS OFFICER - FRANZ

     Franz runs INTO CAMERA and attempts to stop the First SS 
     Officer.  The Second SS Officer whips his pistol out, aims 
     carefully and FIRES a shot into Franz's head.

     VARIOUS SHOTS OF THE PRISONERS

     Uhlmann stands speechless and dumbfounded.  Galt cowers.  
     Beads of perspiration pour from his brow.  Adolf weeps bitter 
     tears as Herman places his arm around his shoulder to comfort 
     him, and himself as well.  Ludwig, dead to any emotion, simply 
     turns and walks away into the crowd.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT

     Helmut is now, more than ever, the clown, as he goes into a 
     frenzied version of the "Clap Dance".  The complete 
     incongruity of his behavior leaves the spectators stunned.

     WIDER ANGLE - SHOWING THE CHILDREN IN B.G.

     The children are no longer screaming, instead they are 
     watching Helmut as though they are hypnotized.

     FULL SHOT - HELMUT, GUARD, SS MEN, OTHER GUARDS

     The guard, fully aware that the sadist SS men may take action 
     against Helmut, quickly motions for two of the other guards 
     to take Helmut away.  The First SS Officer, still panting 
     with exhaustion, shows his approval of the action taken by 
     the guard.  The two guards seize Helmut by the arms and begin 
     dragging him off toward the administration building.  The 
     prisoners move away before the guards holding Helmut, forming 
     a sort of line of march for them.  As they drag Helmut along, 
     he waves back at the children, makes a funny face and moves 
     his feet in something approaching a dance step.

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. SOLITARY CONFINEMENT CELL - NO LIGHT

     SHOOTING FROM THE BACK of the cell toward the door.  The 
     cell is about eight feet long and four feet wide with a steel 
     door at the far end.  The cell is bare.  We HEAR men 
     approaching, and a guard opens the door letting in a shaft 
     of bright light.  Two guards hoist the unconcious Helmut 
     into the cell and drop him onto the floor.

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT

     He lies in a heap on the floor, his face swollen from a severe 
     beating.

     MED. SHOT - CELL

     The guards walk out, slamming the door shut leaving the cell 
     pitch dark.

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     CLOSE SHOT - WINDOW WITH WINDOW SHADE

     Window shade quickly rolls up letting in a steam of blinding 
     sunlight.

     INT. COLONEL BESTLER'S OFFICE - DAY

     Lt. Scharff is by the window, having just rolled up the window 
     shade.  Colonel Bestler is on the phone and obviously 
     exasperated by what he is hearing.

     MED. SHOT - BESTLER, SCHARFF

                      BESTLER
               (on phone)
          Yes.
               (pause)
          Yes.  Yes, I understand perfectly.  
          However, I don't see how we can be 
          held responsible.
               (pause)
          Our orders were very clear.  We were 
          to have the freight car ready to be 
          picked up at midnight.
               (pause)
          Of course, I'm aware the operation 
          must be kept secret.
               (pause)
          I just don't have the staff to send 
          down there now and... Yes, I'll wait.

     He puts hand over mouthpiece to talk to Scharff.

                      BESTLER
          The freight car wasn't picked up.

                      SCHARFF
          It's still down there on the siding!

                      BESTLER
          Some stupid mix up.  If they think...

     The SOUND of the voice coming over the phone causes him to 
     literally snap to attention.

                      BESTLER
          Yes, General.
               (pause)
          Yes, I'm as distressed about the 
          situation as you are.
               (long pause during 
               which he nods his 
               head)
          Yes.  Personally!  Immediately!  
          Yes, General.  You can leave it in 
          my hands.
               (pause)
          Heil Hitler!

     He puts down the instrument and turns at once to Scharff.

                      BESTLER
          Who did you leave in charge down 
          there?

                      SCHARFF
          Sergeant Hoffman.  Very reliable.

                      BESTLER
          Apparently not reliable enough.  The 
          cargo seems to be raising quite a 
          fuss.

                      SCHARFF
               (explanatory)
          Fifty children, sir!  In a boxcar!

                      BESTLER
          I know.  I know.  But the siding 
          isn't far from town.  The General 
          doesn't want unauthorized persons 
          getting curious.  Understand?

                      SCHARFF
          I'll get some men down there right 
          away.

                      BESTLER
          Men!  You'll get yourself down there.
          And take at least a dozen guards 
          with you.  Don't let anyone get close 
          to that boxcar...  under any 
          circumstances.  No one !

                      SCHARFF
          Yes, sir.

     Scharff turns to leave the office, but after a few steps he 
     stops and turns back toward Bestler, a look of concern on 
     his face.

                      SCHARFF
          Sir?

     Bestler looks up.

                      SCHARFF
          I wondered, sir, if you might have 
          any suggestions as... well...  how 
          do we quiet children?

                      BESTLER
          Use any method you can, but shut 
          them up.  That's an order.

     Scharff is disappointed at not getting some help from Bestler.  
     Suddenly his face brightens.

                      SCHARFF
          Sir, the clown!

     Bestler looks at him quizzically.

                      SCHARFF
          The one who amused the children

                      BESTLER
          Out of the question.  The man's being 
          disciplined for that very thing.  We 
          can't change our position now.

                      SCHARFF
          No one need know.

                      BESTLER
          He'd know.

     Scharff thinks this over.  Suddenly his face brightens.

                      SCHARFF
          Sir, if I could guarantee he'd never 
          say anything.

     Bestler looks interested.

                      SCHARFF
          You see, sir, he's been trying to 
          get a review of his case.  Claims 
          he's here by mistake.  I could tell 
          him you would recommend the review.

                      BESTLER
          A man who wants something.  Good.  
          Very good strategy, Lieutenant.
               (he turns to face 
               Scharff)
          However, when you bring him back 
          here, return him to solitary and 
          keep him there.
               (a beat)
          I've seen the best of men, after 
          several years in solitary, unable to 
          remember even their own names.

                      SCHARFF
          Then I have your permission to take 
          the clown.

                      BESTLER
          Permission granted.

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     LONG SHOT - OPEN ROAD - DAY

     A small open truck with 12 soldiers in the back, followed by 
     a staff car, move along the road.

     INT. STAFF CAR - MOVING - DAY

     DRIVER is in the front seat, Helmut and Scharff in the back.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT - SCHARFF

     Helmut has been cleaned up, but still shows the effects of 
     the beating and his stay in solitary.  Holding a small mirror, 
     he is applying his makeup.  He occasionally closes or tries 
     to shade his eyes from the light.  They ride on in silence.  
     Scharff stares straight ahead.

                      HELMUT
          Wish you could've gotten the big 
          shoes.  The children laugh so when 
          they see them flopping up and down.

     Scharff makes no reply.  Helmut starts to put on his big 
     black mouth.

                      HELMUT
               (a touch of the old 
               arrogance)
          The Commandant, himself, asked for 
          me!
               (a beat)
          You say he's personally requesting a 
          review of my case!  Why, that means 
          I'm practically on my way back to 
          Berlin.
               (studies mouth in 
               mirror)
          Should be red.  Mouth looks better 
          in red.
               (a beat)
          Know the first thing I'm going to do 
          when I get to Berlin?  Buy an overcoat 
          with a fur collar.  Had such a coat.  
          Very elegant. Very elegant.
               (finishing the up-
               turned corners of 
               mouth)
          It's a good idea... moving the 
          children.

     Scharff reacts to this.  He looks sharply at Helmut.

                      HELMUT
          Prison's no place for children. I 
          said all along that it was some kind 
          of mistake.

                      SCHARFF
               (uncomfortable)
          Finish your makeup.  We're almost 
          there.

                      HELMUT
          Know what Johann Keltner said?

                      SCHARFF
          Who?

                      HELMUT
          Keltner.  From my barracks.  The 
          minister. He said... Let me think.
          He said... men who wage war on 
          children. That's it. Men who wage 
          war on children... commit such a 
          crime...
               (a beat as he thinks)
          ... such a heinous crime.  That's 
          it.  Men who wage war on children 
          commit such a heinous crime that 
          even the devil damns their souls.

     Scharff looks as though he'd just been slapped across the 
     face.  He quickly turns toward the window.  Helmut inspects 
     his reflection in the mirror as he draws black vertical lines 
     down over each eye -- giving him a very lost, sad, dejected 
     look.

     EXT, RAILROAD SIDING - LONG SHOT - DAY

     as the truck and staff car leave the highway and jolt down a 
     short roadway to a railroad siding where a boxcar sits on 
     the tracks.  Uniformed GUARDS stand watch on both sides of 
     the car, which has the door nearest the CAMERA, partially 
     open.  The truck and staff car pull up to the nearest boxcar.  
     The soldiers jump from the rear of the truck, one of them 
     carrying a large burlap sack.

     MED. SHOT

     as Scharff gets out of the car, from the boxcar comes the 
     SOUND of children crying.

                      SCHARFF
               (to Helmut in car)
          Wait here.

     Scharff strides purposefully over to Sergeant Hoffman, the 
     guard beside the open door.  Hoffman salutes Scharff.

                      SCHARFF
          Any word about the train yet?

                      HOFFMAN
          No, sir.  The last we heard -- it 
          won't get here until evening.

                      SCHARFF
          Anyone been around?

                      HOFFMAN
          No, sir.

                      SCHARFF
          With all that wailing, it's a wonder.  
          Couldn't you keep them quiet?

                      HOFFMAN
          I didn't know what to do, Lieutenant.  
          I was afraid to close both doors.

                      SCHARFF
               (to other soldiers)
          Keep a tight guard on the whole area.  
          No one gets near here.  Understand?
               (to Hoffman)
          You post them.

                      HOFFMAN
               (saluting)
          Yes, sir.

     Hoffman moves over to soldiers and begins giving them their 
     orders.

                      SCHARFF
               (to soldier holding 
               the sack)
          Leave that here.

     The soldier puts down the sack, and hurries off after the 
     others with Hoffman leading the way.  Scharff turns toward 
     the staff car.

                      SCHARFF
               (calling to Helmut)
          Over here, Clown.

     Helmut quickly gets out of the car and moves over to Scharff.  
     He looks toward the partially open door.

                      HELMUT
          They're crying.

                      SCHARFF
               (indicating the sack)
          Take that in to them.

     Helmut picks up the sack and peers into it.

                      HELMUT
          What is it?

                      SCHARFF
          Bread.  They won't wait so loud with 
          their mouths full.

                      HELMUT
               (shocked)
          How... how long have they been here?

                      SCHARFF
          You just get in there and keep them 
          quiet.  You can do that, can't you?

     Helmut nods.  Scharff puts his hand on Helmut's shoulder.  
     Helmut stiffens under his touch.

                      SCHARFF
          Do a good job and I'll personally 
          ask that you get a favorable decision 
          on your case.  Understand?

                      HELMUT
          Yes, sir.

     Helmut moves over to the half open door of the boxcar, the 
     CAMERA MOVING with him.  Just before he looks inside, he 
     puts a wide grin on his face.  But when he does peer into 
     the car, his eyes cease to smile.

     INT. BOXCAR - HELMUT'S POV - DAY

     In one end of the car the children are huddled together in 
     one frightened, wailing mass.  They do not even notice Helmut 
     at first, so great is their sorrow.  The little ones cling 
     to the larger youngsters, who, in turn, cling together.  The 
     small ones weep hysterically , as children do when they have 
     been crying for a very long time.  The CAMERA PULLS BACK so 
     that Helmut is in f.g.   He slides the boxcar door open fully, 
     throwing more light on the children.  This brings renewed 
     walls of anguish from the youngsters, who cluster together 
     more fiercely.  But one little boy sneaks a look at the door, 
     expecting to see more guards.  When he sees Helmut, his tear-
     filled eyes widen.  He can scarcely believe what he sees, 
     much less verbalize it.  He tugs frantically at an OLDER 
     GIRL he has been clutching.  She looks first at him, then at 
     Helmut.  She, too, can hardly believe it.

                      OLDER GIRL
               (tentatively)
          Doork?
               (shrill with 
               recognition)
          It's Doork.  It is!  It is!

     The children begin untangling quickly.  Faces appear between 
     legs, around skirts and over shoulders.  For a moment they 
     can only stare at Helmut, speechless with wonder.

                      HELMUT
               (gently)
          So this is where you've been hiding?

     That breaks the silence, and the children begin squealing ad-
     libbed expressions of greeting and relief.  They repeat his 
     name time and again:  "Doork, Doork, Doork."  As one... the 
     youngsters surge toward him.  The little boy who first saw 
     him reaches him first.  He drops to his knees and puts his 
     arms around Helmut's neck, hugging him furiously.  Helmut 
     returns the embrace.

                      BOY
          I want to go home.  Take me home.

                      HELMUT
          Now, now, there's nothing to cry 
          about.  We're going to have fun.
               (disengaging himself 
               and picking up the 
               sack)
          Here.  I brought you something.
               (he tosses it into 
               the car)
          The children pounce on the sack and 
          tug at it, unsure what it is except 
          that it's a gift from Helmut.

                      HELMUT
          Wait now.  Don't open it yet.  Wait'll 
          I get in.  You help me.

     He backs up a few steps, the CAMERA PULLING BACK with him.  
     Then he runs toward the car and, with strength he really 
     doesn't have, jumps up so that he gets his arms on the floor 
     of the boxcar.  He heaves himself forward partially into it, 
     and the children grab his clothes to help him inside.  A 
     couple of the older boys seize the seat of his pants and 
     finally pull him in.

     INT. RAILROAD CAR - DAY

     FAVORING Helmut as he rolls over and jumps up, waggling his 
     head from side to side in the manner of a Jack-in-the-box.  
     The children watch him big-eyed.  A few giggle.

                      HELMUT
          Look, I'm a Jack-in-the-box.

     He gestures around to indicate that he is, indeed, in a box.

                      HELMUT
          We're all Jacks-in-the-box -- the 
          same box.

     The children laugh, and some begin imitating Helmut's head 
     movements.  Others do the same, and still others, including 
     the Czech youngsters, until all are waggling their heads at 
     each other and loving it.  Then, out of sheer adoration, the 
     youngest of the children close in on Helmut and hug him around 
     his legs.  Slowly he stops waggling his head and stretches 
     out his arms to embrace as many of them as he can -- almost 
     as if trying to protect them.  Suddenly the gaiety dissolves, 
     and the children go solemnly silent.  Helmut reacts.

                      HELMUT
          Well... who's hungry.

     Almost in unison, the children shout "I am", again forgetting 
     their unhappiness.

                      HELMUT
          All right, I want everybody to sit 
          down.  When I count three, everybody 
          sit.  Ready?   One, two...

     On the count of two, many of the youngsters sit down.  Helmut 
     feigns surprise.

                      HELMUT
          Oh, you're too fast.  Three!

     This brings a burst of giggles, and the remaining children, 
     sit down... the Czechs following the example of the others.  
     Helmut opens the burlap sack and begins handing out pieces 
     of black bread.  The children grab at the chunks and gnaw it 
     voraciously.  When all of the youngsters have been given the 
     bread, Helmut takes a piece and bites into it with great 
     relish.  After a few chews on the bread:

                      HELMUT
          Now... what'll we do?

     There is a long moment of silence, then the little blonde 
     girl with the rag doll speaks up timidly.

                      LITTLE GIRL
          I want to see my Mommy.

     Helmut is brought up short.  For a beat he searches his brain 
     frantically for an answer.  Then he goes to the child and 
     kneels beside her.

                      HELMUT
          You would?  All right.

                      LITTLE GIRL
          You know where she is?

                      HELMUT
          She's right here with you.

                      LITTLE GIRL
          I don't see her.

                      HELMUT
          That's because you don't know how to 
          look.  I'll show you.  Close your 
          eyes.
               (to the other children)
          All of you... close your eyes.

     The little girl closes her eyes and one by one the other 
     youngsters do also.  The Czech children look at each other, 
     then at the other children, then they too close their eyes.

                      HELMUT
          Everybody's eyes shut?  Now, think 
          about your mommys and Daddys... There, 
          don't you see them?  Can't you see 
          their faces?

     The children, marvelling at this feat, ad lib expressions of 
     assent.

                      HELMUT
          So you see!  They're right here with 
          you.  All you have to do is look in 
          your hearts.

                      LITTLE GIRL
               (putting her hand 
               over her heart)
          Does Mommy see me, Doork?

                      HELMUT
               (deeply touched)
          Yes, she does.  She has you safe in 
          her heart, too.

     The silence in the car tells Helmut that sadness has returned 
     to the children.  He brightens quickly and rises.

                      HELMUT
          I've got an idea.  You all know my 
          name, but I don't know yours.  So 
          let's find out everybody's name, 
          shall we?

     He points to a boy of about ten in the group.

                      HELMUT
          You... come here and I'll show you 
          what we'll do.

     The boy, honored at being singled out, rises and comes to 
     Helmut, who takes a stubby pencil from his pocket.

                      HELMUT
          What's your name?

                      BOY
               (timidly)
          Willie.

                      HELMUT
          Willie.  That's a good name.  How do 
          you spell it?

                      BOY
          W-I-L-L-I-E.

                      HELMUT
          Fine.  I'll just write that on top 
          of your head.

     Using the eraser end of the pencil, Helmut carefully traces 
     the letters on top of the boy's head.  The youngster peers 
     upward, wondering.

                      HELMUT
          There.  See, this way we'll all be 
          able to tell everybody else's name 
          just by looking at his head.

     CLOSE SHOT - BOY

     still looking up, but now doubtful.

                      BOY
          Did you really?

     MED. SHOT - THE GROUP

                      HELMUT
          Of course I did.  Here...

     He pulls an older boy to his feet, winks at him and points 
     to the first boy's head.

                      HELMUT
               (to the older boy)
          Tell him what it says.

                      OLDER BOY
               (giggling)
          It says Willie.

                      BOY
               (impressed)
          Really?  Truly?

     He puts his hand to his head.

                      HELMUT
          Be careful.  Don't smear it.
               (he glances around)
          Let's see now... Yes.  You shall be 
          next.

     He points to a Czech girl of about six.  He motions for her 
     to come over to him.  She shyly bows her head.  Her friends 
     push her forward. Helmut holds out his hand to her, she grabs 
     it.

                      HELMUT
          What is your name?

     She looks at him, then at the other Czech children.  They 
     all giggle.

                      HELMUT
               (squatting down beside 
               her)
          Forgive me.  I don't speak your 
          language.

     He gently plants a kiss on her cheek and she puts an arm 
     around his neck.

                      HELMUT
               (to others)
          See!  We understand each other.  
          Now...
               (he points to Willie)
          Willie.
               (he points to himself)
          Doork.
               (points again to Willie)
          Willie.
               (pointing to himself)
          Doork.

     The child's eyes light up and she whispers into Helmut's 
     ear.

                      HELMUT
          A beautiful name!  Now you tell all 
          the children.

                      CZECH GIRL
               (almost a whisper)
          Inga.

                      HELMUT
          It's such a pretty name... say it 
          again.

                      CZECH GIRL
               (more sure of herself)
          Inga!

     She quickly bows her head for Helmut to outline her name on 
     the top of it.

                      HELMUT
               (with a flourish of 
               his pencil)
          I-N-G-A.  There it is.

     The little girl gives a quick curtsy and hurries back to her 
     group.  Helmut glances around at the children.

                      HELMUT
          Let's see now.  Who wants to be next.

     The little girl with the doll presses forward.

                      HELMUT
          You?

     Shaking her head she holds up the doll.

                      HELMUT
          Her?

                      LITTLE GIRL
          So the little children will know her 
          name.

                      HELMUT
          Of course.  That way she can't get 
          lost, can she?  What's her name?

                      LITTLE GIRL
          Frederika.

                      HELMUT
               (mock dismay)
          Frederika?

     He studies the top of doll's tiny head.  Then he holds up 
     his hand and measures off a distance of about three inches 
     in the air with thumb and forefinger.

                      HELMUT
          Frederika!

     Next he puts the doll's head between his thumb and forefinger, 
     illustrating that the head is too small for the name.

                      HELMUT
          Couldn't we just make it Freda?

                      LITTLE GIRL
               (solemnly)
          Oh, no!  Frederika.

     Helmut shrugs, closes one eye and begins writing in tiny 
     letters on the doll's head.  The children laugh delightedly.

     EXT. RAILROAD SIDING - FULL SHOT - DAY

     Sergeant Hoffmann is walking his post beside the open door 
     of the boxcar.  Inside we can see Helmut and the children 
     and HEAR their laughter.

     The CAMERA PANS over to the staff car, where Scharff sits in 
     the front seat smoking a cigarette and waiting.

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. RAILROAD SIDING - FULL SHOT - AFTERNOON

     It is perhaps two hours later.   Sergeant Hoffman is now 
     leaning wearily against the boxcar near the door.  The CAMERA 
     PANS over to the staff car, where Scharff is dozing in the 
     back seat.

     MED. SHOT - SERGEANT HOFFMAN

     From within the boxcar we can HEAR Helmut SINGING softly to 
     the children.  Sergeant Hoffman is listening.  Finally he 
     takes something from his pocket, goes to the door of the 
     boxcar and sticks his head inside.

     INT BOXCAR

     The children are scattered about, either sleeping or near 
     sleep, many of them cuddled close to Helmut, who sits near 
     the door with his back against the side of the car, crooning.

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
               (whispering)
          Clown.  Clown, can you play one of 
          these?

     He holds out a harmonica.  Helmut leans over to get it, being 
     careful not to disturb the children.

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
          I got it to send home to my boy...  
          but if it'll help...

     TWO SHOT - HELMUT, HOFFMAN

                      HELMUT
          It will.  It will.
               (he takes it)

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
          You won't say anything to the 
          Lieutenant.

                      HELMUT
          I promise.

     He leans back and looks at the harmonica, then he has a sudden 
     thought as Hoffman's head disappears.  He leans back toward 
     the door.

                      HELMUT
          Guard... guard.

     Hoffman reappears at door.

                      HELMUT
          It's going to be dark soon.  The 
          little ones may be afraid.  Do you 
          think... well... could you get some 
          kind of a light for in here?

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
               (angry)
          Want to get me in trouble?

     Helmut nods that he understands Hoffman's situation.

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
               (trying to justify 
               himself)
          I would if I could.

                      HELMUT
          I know.  I know you would.

     Again Hoffman's face disappears.  Helmut leans back and begins 
     experimenting with the harmonica.  Actually he can play it 
     only slightly, but he manages to get some sort of soft tune 
     out of it.  The CAMERA PULLS BACK SLOWLY to include the 
     children, most of who are resting peacefully, secure in 
     Helmut's presence.  But suddenly a little dark haired, dark-
     eyed girl of about six, sits upright and cries out, frightened 
     by a bad dream.  Helmut reacts.  The child looks around the 
     boxcar as if she can't remember how she got there and begins 
     crying inconsolably.  Some of the other children stir.  Helmut 
     quickly but carefully disengages himself from the tots around 
     him and picks his way over to the girl.  He kneels beside 
     her, and the CAMERA MOVES UP to --

     TIGHT TWO SHOT - HELMUT, DARK-EYED GIRL

     The child continues crying, but more softly, he wide wet 
     eyes on Helmut.

                      HELMUT
               (gently)
          What's the matter?
               (she only stares at 
               him)
          It's all right -- just a bad dream.

     He tries to put a comforting arm around her, but she shrinks 
     away continuing to sob softly.  Realizing that words won't 
     help, he turns to the harmonica for communication, serenading 
     her with a soft but sprightly tune of his own improvisation.  
     It is hardly a masterpiece, but it has the desired effect.  
     The girl stops sobbing, and when Helmut finishes the tune he 
     makes a real funny face and she timorously puts a hand up to 
     touch his make-up, but pulls it back quickly.  With an 
     affectionate smile, Helmut takes her hand and runs it over 
     his face, pretending that her touch tickles him.  As he 
     laughs, the child begins to smile faintly.  He shows her the 
     traces of chalk make-up on her fingers, and she giggles.  
     His conquest is all but complete.  He picks the youngster 
     up, and holding her like a dancing partner, pretends to dance 
     with her to a little tune he hums.  She loves this and laughs 
     outright.  When Helmut finally puts her down, he kisses her 
     on the cheek and turns his cheek in an unspoken request for 
     a return kiss.  The girl shyly and quickly gives Helmut's 
     cheek a peck.  Grinning, Helmut pats the spot where she kissed 
     him to show his appreciation for her wonderful gift.

     WIDER ANGLE

     The older girl we saw earlier calls to him in a hushed voice.

                      OLDER GIRL
          Doork.

     Helmut moves over and squats down beside her and the CAMERA 
     MOVES IN to --

     CLOSE TWO SHOT - HELMUT, OLDER GIRL

                      OLDER GIRL
          Where are they sending us?

                      HELMUT
               (shaking his head)
          Don't know.

                      OLDER GIRL
          Do you have children?

     Helmut looks around at the children.  He smiles sadly.

                      HELMUT
          I do now.

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. STAFF CAR - NEAR DUSK

     Scharff, dozing in the back seat, is awakened by the SOUND 
     of an approaching train o.s.  He listens, glances at his 
     watch, shakes his head and gets out of the car.

     EXT. RAILROAD SIDING - NEAR DUSK

     As Scharff strides to the boxcar, where Sergeant Hoffman has 
     also hear the locomotive.  He salutes as Scharff comes up, 
     the CAMERA FOLLOWING him.

                      SCHARFF
          It finally got here.

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
          Yes, sir.

                      SCHARFF
          Help them get the car coupled on.

     We want to move it out of here as fast as possible.  Be sure 
     the doors are locked.  And, get the clown off.

     Hoffman salutes, and Scharff moves off toward the approaching 
     locomotive and freight cars being backed up to the boxcar.

     FULL SHOT - FREIGHT TRAIN - (STOCK)

     It is backing down the siding toward the boxcar.

     MED. SHOT - SERGEANT HOFFMAN

     With a cautious look around, he reaches under the waiting 
     boxcar and brings out a box-type, battery operated lantern.  
     He goes to the boxcar door and peers inside.

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
               (calling)
          All right, clown, time to get off.

     Helmut appears at the door and looks down.

                      HELMUT
          What is it?

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
          Train is here.  They are hooking it 
          up now.
               (he hoists the lantern 
               inside)
          Here.  Tell them not to light it up 
          until the doors are closed.

     Helmut gives him a look of deep gratitude.

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
               (curtly)
          And get off right now.

     Just then the boxcar is jolted as the locomotive makes contact 
     and Hoffman runs off toward the front of the car.

     INT. BOXCAR - EVENING

     The jolt has awakened several of the children, who gather 
     around Helmut in the dimness of the car, frightened and 
     bewildered.

                      CHILDREN
          We're moving.  What's happening?  
          What was the noise?  Doork, where 
          are we going?

                      HELMUT
               (forced gaiety)
          It's nothing.  You're going for a 
          train ride.  What do you think of 
          that?  A real train ride.

                      CHILDREN
               (pressing close -- 
               sensing his anxiety)
          Is it far?  Are you coming, too?  I 
          don't want a train ride.

                      HELMUT
          Oh, it'll be fun.  I would like to 
          come, but I don't think I can.

                      CHILDREN
               (pleading)
          Please come, Doork.  Please.  Please.  
          Please.

                      HELMUT
          I can't.  They want me to stay here.

     There are cries from the children, whose pleading eyes make 
     Helmut terribly uncomfortable.  He backs toward the door.

                      HELMUT
          But... I'll come to see you.  Soon 
          as I can. And, I want you all to 
          promise me to be very good.  No 
          crying.

     The children stare at him silently, their eyes unconsciously 
     accusing.  With him goes all their security.  Helmut knows 
     it, but he has no choice.  When he reaches the door...

                      HELMUT
          If you want me...  remember, just 
          close your eyes.

     CLOSE SHOT - LITTLE GIRL WITH THE DARK EYES

     Wordlessly, she shuts her eyes -- tight.

     PAN SHOT - CHILDREN

     Following the dark-eyed girl's example, the smaller children 
     one by one, close their eyes.

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT

     Near tears with emotion, he wavers.  Then with great control..

                      HELMUT
               (huskily)
          Goodbye.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT

     He turns and sits down on the floor of the car with his feet 
     hanging outside.  He is just about to jump down when he is 
     stopped by a LOUD WAIL of anguish from one of the children 
     behind him.  He turns and looks back at them.

     MED. SHOT - CHILDREN - HELMUT'S POV

     A BOY of about six, one of the Czech youngsters, is crying 
     with the dejection of a lad who has just lost everything.  
     The other little Czechs and the older girl who first 
     recognized Helmut at the boxcar door are trying unsuccessfully 
     to console him.  Between cooing and patting the boy's 
     shoulder, the girl throws accusing looks at Helmut.

     WIDER ANGLE - TO INCLUDE HELMUT

     Uncertain what to do, Helmut glances around outside.  
     Satisfied that the train isn't going to move at once, he 
     gets up and goes to the children.

                      HELMUT
          What's this now?  Crying?  After all 
          the fun we've had?

     The boy only looks at Helmut and goes right on crying.  Helmut 
     looks helplessly at the older girl.

                      GIRL
          It's his birthday.  He thought there 
          would be presents.

                      HELMUT
               (to girl)
          He's a Czech.   Do you speak...

                      GIRL
               (annoyed)
          Of course not!

     Helmut is angry with the girl because he really wants to get 
     off the train and yet can't because of the accusing look in 
     her eyes.

                      HELMUT
               (pointedly)
          Then how do you know it's his... 
          birthday?

                      GIRL
               (with typical child 
               logic)
          He told me.

                      HELMUT
          He speaks German?

                      GIRL
          No.

                      HELMUT
          But he told you it's his birthday?

     The girl nods firmly as do the other children.  The boy 
     watches it all, wide-eyed.  Helmut figures to put an end to 
     this.

                      HELMUT
          What date is this?

                      GIRL
               (after thinking it 
               over)
          Why, it's his birthday!

     This is too much for Helmut to fathom.  He turns his head 
     away, trying to think.

                      GIRL
          Don't you believe him?

     Helmut turns back to them, looking first at the girl, then 
     at the boy, his little upturned tear-stained face full of 
     wonder.  Helmut softens, recalling perhaps his own birthday 
     disappointment.

                      HELMUT
          Of course, I do.
               (pats boy's head)
          Tell him I wish him a happy birthday.

                      GIRL
          He knows that.  But... but what're 
          you going to do about a present?

     Helmut fans his clothes, finds the harmonica and produces it 
     with a flourish.

                      HELMUT
          Aha, the very thing.  He can be the 
          clown while I'm gone.

     ANOTHER ANGLE - FAVORING THE CZECH BOY

     As Helmut bows and holds out the harmonica to him.

                      HELMUT
          Happy birthday.

     The boy looks solemnly at Helmut and the harmonica.  He 
     doesn't quite seem to understand what this is all about, but 
     the harmonica is enticing.  He looks up at his countrymen 
     for encouragement.  They smile at him, and he takes the 
     harmonica, examines it, then blows into it experimentally.  
     When he hears the SOUND that comes out, he brightens.  Then 
     the little girl with the rag doll comes forward and offers 
     it to the boy.  He looks at her strangely, one of the older 
     German boys scoffs.

                      GERMAN BOY
          He's a boy!  Dolls are for girls.

     The little girl is hurt, and looks to Helmut for support.

                      HELMUT
          When you give something you love...  
          it doesn't matter if it's the right 
          thing.

     He takes the doll and puts one of it's hands in the boy's 
     hand, the other in the little girl's.  They stand looking at 
     each other and sharing the doll.  Helmut looks towards the 
     door apprehensively, but there seems to be no action outside -- 
     and there are the eyes of the children on him.

                      HELMUT
          Maybe we have time for a birthday 
          game.  A quick one.  Let me take a 
          look.

     INT. BOXCAR - FULL SHOT

     Helmut goes back to the door.  He glances around outside.  
     There still seems to be time.  He returns to the children.

                      HELMUT
          Everybody line up behind me now, and 
          I'll show you how a train goes.  
          Wait -- the harmonica.

     Helmut looks around for the new owner of the harmonica.  He 
     goes over to him.

                      HELMUT
          May I borrow it back... for just a 
          minute or two?

     The boy studies him dubiously with that "Indian-giver" look 
     in his eyes.

                      HELMUT
          For just a minute -- then I'll give 
          it right back to you.
               (trying a sort of 
               sign language)
          Just for the game.

     Finally the boy hands over the harmonica and manages a smile 
     because he sees all the other children smiling at him.

                      HELMUT
          Good.  Now everybody...  line up 
          behind me.

     The children scramble into line behind him.  Helmut looks 
     back at them.

                      HELMUT
          Grab hold of the one in front of 
          you...  'cause we're going to be a 
          fast express train.

     The children, laughing and giggling, grab hold of one another.

                      HELMUT
               (calling out)
          All aboard.  All aboard.

     He puts the harmonica to his lips and begins huffing and 
     puffing on it, imitating a train.  He begins to shuffle his 
     feet and move slowly down the side of the car... the children 
     holding on for dear life and following him... their eyes 
     shining with expectation as Helmut begins to quicken his 
     pace.

                                           CUT TO:

     INT. BOXCAR - NEARLY DARK

     Dim shafts of light from the two small square vent openings 
     near the top on each side, gives the boxcar an eerie look.  
     Helmut stops abruptly as he hears the slamming of the door.  
     The children pile up behind him.

                      HELMUT
          WAIT!

     He moves quickly to the door and tugs at it.  Finding it 
     locked, he pounds on it.

                      HELMUT
          Open the door!  Let me out...  LET 
          ME OUT!

     But the train NOISES drown his voice.  Then the boxcar 
     suddenly lurches and starts to move forward.  Helmut's 
     pounding weakens and stops.  He turns from the door, his 
     face reflecting his fright.  The children, not quite 
     understanding what has happened, gather around him, and pull 
     on him.  He manages to control his fear, and looking at the 
     children, he manages a big smile.

                      HELMUT
          Guess I'm going with you after all.

     He switches on the lantern and holds it high so its rays 
     cover all the children.

                      CHILD
          Let's play some more, Doork?

     Helmut glances down at the tot, started by the suggestion.  
     Then he nods in a stunned sort of way.  He puts the harmonica 
     to his mouth and begins puffing on it.

                                           CUT TO:

     EXT. RAILROAD SIDING - EVENING

     Scharff and Sergeant Hoffman stand watching the boxcar move 
     away.

     MED. TWO SHOT - SCHARFF, HOFFMAN

                      SCHARFF
          I'm glad that's over.  Call in the 
          sentries.

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
          Yes, sir.

     He starts to move away.

                      SCHARFF
          Kessler in the car?

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
          Kessler?

                      SCHARFF
          The clown?

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
               (looking around)
          I... I guess he is, sir.

                      SCHARFF
          You GUESS!

     Scharff races to the car with Sergeant Hoffman right behind 
     him. The CAMERA FOLLOWS them.

     Scharff peers inside and finds the car empty.  With an angry 
     glance at Hoffman, he hurries to the truck and looks in the 
     cab.  It too is empty.

                      SCHARFF
               (moving back toward 
               Hoffman)
          I told you to get him off the train.

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
          I told him, sir.  HE was standing 
          right by the door.  I'm sure he got 
          off.

                      SCHARFF
          Did you see him?

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
          Why, I...

                      SCHARFF
          DID you?

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
          You told me to see that the car was 
          coupled on.  When I came back...  
          Why wouldn't he get off?

                      SCHARFF
          Idiot!
               (shouting)
          Guards.  GUARDS!

     The other soldiers come running from o.s.

                      SCHARFF
          The clown prisoner is missing.  He 
          may have escaped.  Search the area.  
          If he got off the train he must be 
          around here someplace.

     The soldiers rush o.s. into the deepening darkness.

     CLOSE TWO SHOT - SCHARFF, HOFFMAN

                      SCHARFF
          You know what happens if he gets 
          away.

                      SERGEANT HOFFMAN
               (hopefully)
          He can't get very far.

     Scharff looks o.s. after the disappearing train.

                      SCHARFF
          If he's on that train -- he's going 
          farther than you know ---

                                           CUT TO:

     LONG SHOT - TRAIN - EVENING (STOCK)

     The rear of the boxcar is just disappearing from sight in 
     the darkness.

     CLOSEUP - SCHARFF

                      SCHARFF
          ... or he knows.

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. BOXCAR - MOVING - DAY

     It is the next morning.  Light is coming from the vents and 
     the lantern which hangs from a peg in the middle of the right 
     side of the car.  Helmut is asleep on the floor with the 
     children huddled around him.  He lies on his side with one 
     arm thrown protectively over the little Czech girl, Inga, 
     and Willie.  Behind him, the Czech birthday boy and the girl 
     with the doll are cuddled close to him.  Other youngsters 
     have their heads on his legs and feet, and all are as close 
     to him as they can get.

     He is, in fact, a sort of human bed.  From the train NOISES 
     o.s. we can tell that the freight train is slowing down.  
     Then, with a jolt, it stops, and o.s. we HEAR a truck engine 
     approaching.  Helmut stirs and sits up, trying to get his 
     bearings.  This arouses some of the children and they too 
     sit up and look around.

                      CHILDREN
          What is it?  Are we there, Doork?
          Where are we?  Why are we stopping?

                      HELMUT
          I don't know.

     He untangles himself, rises and stretches his numbed arms 
     and legs.  He starts toward the door, but it slides open 
     suddenly and a BURLY GUARD vaults inside.   Behind him we 
     see a truck similar to a moving van being backed up to the 
     boxcar.  Helmut blinks uncertainly at the light pouring 
     through the door.

                      BURLY GUARD
          Everybody up.  No noise.

     The children are too startled to move.  The guard notices 
     Helmut and reacts.

                      BURLY GUARD
          Who the hell are you?

                      HELMUT
          Where are we?

                      BURLY GUARD
          How the devil did you get in here?

                      HELMUT
          I... I'm from the other prison.  Got 
          locked in -- by accident.

                      BURLY GUARD
          Ah, for...
               (shouting out the 
               door)
          Sergeant!

                                           CUT TO:

     EXT BOXCAR - DAY

     We see now that the train has stopped at an isolated siding.  
     The truck has backed up almost to the door of the boxcar.  A 
     SERGEANT climbs down from the cab of the van and hurries to 
     the boxcar door, the CAMERA PANNING him there.

                      SERGEANT
          What's the matter?

                      BURLY GUARD
          Look at this.  He's from the other 
          camp.  Got in here with the shipment.

                      SERGEANT
          How did that happen?

                      HELMUT
          I... I was taking care of the children 
          back there and... accidentally got 
          locked in.

                      SERGEANT
          Of all the... What's your name?

                      HELMUT
               (realizing he's in 
               big trouble)
          Doork.  Helmut Doork.

     The Sergeant fumes for a moment, then...

                      SERGEANT
               (to the guard)
          Put him in the truck with the others.  
          And, let's get going.

                                           CUT TO:

     INT. BOXCAR - DAY

     ANGLE to the door as the Sergeant disappears.  Reaching out, 
     the Burly Guard lowers the tailgate of the truck so that it 
     forms a bridge to the boxcar.

                      BURLY GUARD
               (to the children)
          All right, in the truck, quick now!

     The children, most of whom are on their feet now, hesitate, 
     looking to Helmut for guidance.  The guard seizes one 
     youngster and shoves him toward the door.  Instead, however, 
     the child flies to Helmut and grabs him around the legs.

                      BURLY GUARD
          I said move!

                      HELMUT
               (quickly)
          Wait.  Let me.
               (to the children)
          Everybody up.  Come on.  Up, up, up.

     He moves around, helping the still seated children to their 
     feet.  When they're all up...

                      SERGEANT
               (to Helmut)
          Not you.

                      HELMUT
          Don't you want me to stay with them?  
          They'll be frightened without me.

                      BURLY GUARD
          Not for long, they won't.

                      SERGEANT
               (to guard)
          That's enough.  Get them inside and 
          keep them quiet.

     Burly guard starts to prod the children but they don't move, 
     their eyes are fixed on Helmut.

                      BURLY GUARD
               (threateningly)
          MOVE!

                      HELMUT
          Do as he says.  And, don't worry, 
          I'll be with you soon.  I promise.

     Reluctantly, the children march off.  They look back 
     frequently at Helmut who waves to them.

                      SERGEANT
               (to Helmut)
          Come along, now.

     They walk over to a two-story building.  Helmut looks back 
     in the direction of the children, then looks about the camp.

                      HELMUT
          This is just another prison.

                      SERGEANT
          What'd you expect?

                      HELMUT
          I thought the children were going to 
          a better place.

     The Sergeant, with an incredulous look on his face, stares 
     at Helmut.

     INT. CELL - DAY

     The cell is a small, bare cubicle containing only a cot and 
     an open toilet.  In the wall, fronting on the prison yard, 
     there is a small barred window.  Helmut stops pacing and 
     moves over to it, and looks out.  The CAMERA SWINGS so that 
     it is SHOOTING PAST Helmut's head through the window.  At 
     the far end of the yard we can see the windowless stone 
     buildings.  As Helmut stares out at them, we HEAR approaching 
     footsteps. Helmut stiffens, turns toward the door as the 
     SOUND of the footsteps grows louder and louder.

     The CAMERA SWINGS toward the door as it opens to reveal 
     CAPTAIN CURT RUNKEL, a slender, impeccably groomed and 
     thoroughly Nazified officer of the elite S.S.  He is the 
     embodiment of all Hitlerian ideals.  Runkel strides into the 
     cell.

                      RUNKEL
               (over shoulder to 
               guard at door)
          Close the door, and wait out there.

     Guard closes the door.  Runkel studies Helmut coldly.  Without 
     taking his eyes off Helmut, he pulls out a cigarette case, 
     takes out cigarette, lights it and slowly inhales.

                      RUNKEL
          You're a remarkable man.  Very 
          remarkable.

     Helmut stirs uneasily.

                      RUNKEL
          Have you any idea where you are?

     Helmut shakes his head.

                      RUNKEL
          Auschwitz.  This is Auschwitz.
               (a beat)
          Mean anything to you?
               (before Helmut can 
               answer)
          You may have observed we're enlarging 
          our facilities.

     He moves over to the window and looks out, puffing slowly on 
     his cigarette.

                      RUNKEL
          Still a great deal of work to be 
          done.
               (proudly)
          It's going to be our most efficient, 
          most modern prison.
               (he turns and smiles)
          And, I might add, most unique.
               (walks back towards 
               Helmut, studying him 
               carefully)

                      RUNKEL
          Yes, you are a remarkable man.  I 
          always wonder about remarkable men.
               (then evenly)
          Why did you come here?

                      HELMUT
          I explained.  I got locked in the 
          boxcar and...

                      RUNKEL
               (cuts in - still bland)
          Ah, yes.  An accident.  Unavoidable 
          I suppose.

                      HELMUT
          I was taking care -- I mean, the 
          Commandant requested me to take care 
          of the children.

                      RUNKEL
               (a slight note of 
               mockery)
          The Commandant!

     Runkel tosses his cigarette on the floor and very deliberately 
     grinds it out with his boot.

                      RUNKEL
          I've spoken to YOUR Commandant.  He 
          hs you listed as an escaped prisoner.

                      HELMUT
          Escaped!  But...

                      RUNKEL
               (finishing it for him)
          ... it was an accident.
               (his face close to 
               Helmut's)
          Are you one of them, clown?

                      HELMUT
               (terrorized at the 
               thought of death)
          No... no!  I'm not one of them.  I'm 
          not !

     Runkel smiles, moves away from Helmut.

                      RUNKEL
          You misunderstand completely.  The 
          Judas goat is never killed.  He isn't 
          worth killing.
               (moves to cell door)
          I'm just asking you to lead them.

     ANOTHER ANGLE - FAVORING HELMUT

     His eyes plead, "No.  I can't do it.  No."

                      RUNKEL
          Not... even to save your own life?

     For a brief moment, Helmut struggles to find the courage to 
     stand up to Runkel -- but he has no courage and he sinks 
     slowly to his knees, his head bowed.

     CLOSE SHOT - RUNKEL

                      RUNKEL
               (victorious)
          I'm glad to see you're not a self-
          appointed martyr.

     TWO SHOT - HELMUT, RUNKEL

     Runkel towers above Helmut who sits back on his haunches, 
     leaning against the wall.

                      RUNKEL
          Just think!  Now you're really one 
          of us.

     The truth of Runkel's remark hits Helmut like a devastating 
     blow.   He turns his face to the wall in shame.  Runkel walks 
     to the door, raps on it, the guard outside swings it open.

                      HELMUT
               (attempting to get to 
               his feet)
          Sir... Sir... could I... could I 
          have a little time with them before 
          ... before...

     His voice trails off.  Runkel looks at Helmut while he thinks 
     it over.  He moves back to the middle of the cell.

                      RUNKEL
          Yes.  Yes, of course.
               (he looks at his watch)
          I can give you about half an hour.
               (a little smile lights 
               his face)
          You see, we're not heartless men 
          here.

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. CHILDRENS' HUT - DAY

     ANGLE to the door as Helmut and the Sergeant approach from 
     o.s.  Helmut has freshened his make-up.

                      SERGEANT
          Remember what I told you.

                      HELMUT
          There won't be any trouble.

     Helmut goes to the door and starts to open it.  The CAMERA 
     MOVES UP to --

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT

     With a great effort, he composes himself and throws open the 
     door.

                                           CUT TO:

     INT. CHILDRENS' HUT - DAY

     ANGLE to the door, where Helmut stands wearing an enormous 
     grin.  The children are about the barren room in little 
     groups.  When they see Helmut, they leap up and run to him, 
     clinging to him as he closes the door behind him and moves 
     into the room.

                      CHILDREN
          Doork, Doork, you came back.  You 
          came back.  We thought you'd left 
          us.  Don't leave us, Doork.

     The children continue to ad lib expressions of mingled fear 
     and delight at his return.  Helmut goes among them, patting 
     their heads comfortingly.

                      HELMUT
          There.  There.  It's all right. It's 
          all right.   Everything is going to 
          be all right.

     When the youngsters are calmed, Helmut holds up his hands 
     for silence.

                      HELMUT
          Now I want everyone to put on a big 
          smile and sit down, because we're 
          going to have more fun than we've 
          ever had.

     Slowly, still unconvinced that they have nothing to fear, 
     the children sit on the floor.

                      HELMUT
          Good.  We'll start by seeing that we 
          all have our names on our heads.

     The children begin to lower their heads so Helmut can check 
     to see if their names are still there.

                      HELMUT
               (as he moves among 
               them)
          Yes, yes.  There's Fritz, Maria, 
          Sadie, Inga, Josef, Nathan, Helga, 
          Willie...

     The little girl with the rag doll holds up the doll for Helmut 
     to see.

                      HELMUT
          Ah, yes, Frederika!  Good.  I see 
          all of your names.

     This is almost too much for Helmut, but he manages to control 
     himself by turning away for a beat.  Then he turns back to 
     the children, his big smile back in place.

                      HELMUT
          Now... on with the show.  Just watch 
          this.

                                           CUT TO:

     PAN SHOT - CHILDREN

     Their little faces are troubled, worried.

                                      DISSOLVE TO:

     PAN SHOT - CHILDREN

     It is a half hour later, and now the children are laughing 
     at something Helmut is doing o.s.  The CAMERA PULLS BACK to --

     MED. SHOT - THE GROUP

     Helmut is walking an imaginary tightrope.  Every few steps 
     he almost loses his balance, but with comical gyrations he 
     manages to complete the walk.  He bows deeply to the children -- 
     and falls flat on his face.  The youngsters laugh, applaud 
     and squeal delightedly.

     TWO SHOT - HELMUT, WILLIE

     Helmut is lying on the floor near the boy.  He looks up at 
     the tot and grins.

                      WILLIE
          Doork!  Doork... you're great !

     Helmut grabs Willie and holds him close while he fights back 
     his tears.   Willie plants a big kiss on his cheek.  Helmut 
     scrambles to his feet, the CAMERA PULLING BACK to --

     WIDER ANGLE

     SHOOTING PAST Helmut to the door as it opens, revealing the 
     Sergeant, his face expressionless.  Helmut reacts.

                      SERGEANT
               (to Helmut)
          It's time.

                      HELMUT
          Just a few more minutes?

     The sergeant shakes his head.

                      HELMUT
          I'll bring them.

     The children are watching him, puzzled.

                      CHILDREN
          What's the matter, Doork?  Where are 
          we going?  You come with us this 
          time.  Where're they taking us.

                      HELMUT
               (trying to think what 
               to say)
          They... they want us to move to 
          another building... where we'll have 
          more room... to play.
               (a beat)
          Tell you what.  Let's make it a big 
          circus parade.  Everybody get in a 
          line behind...

     He picks up Willie and stands him near the door.

                      HELMUT
               (continuing)
          ... behind Willie here.

     The children scramble up and begin forming a line behind the 
     very proud Willie.  Helmut looks around for the boy with the 
     harmonica.

                      HELMUT
          Now, where's our band?  The harmonica?

     He sees the boy and goes to him.  Helmut pantomimes playing 
     the harmonica and points to himself.  The boy smiles widely, 
     fishes the harmonica out of his pocket and holds it up.

                      HELMUT
          There we are?  Everybody ready?  
          Here we go.

     Helmut takes his place at the head of the line, like the 
     Pied Piper, leads the youngsters out the door, playing a 
     crude sort of circus parade music.  The little children giggle 
     excitedly as they troupe out.  The older ones seem less 
     certain, but as long as Helmut is with them, they feel secure.

                                           CUT TO:

     EXT. PRISON YARD - DAY

     As the procession of youngsters emerges from the barracks 
     with Helmut dancing along at its head.  The Sergeant and the 
     other two Guards stand watching in disbelief as the line 
     turns and moves along toward the first of the windowless 
     buildings.

     MED. SHOT - SERGEANT, GUARDS

     They look at each other incredulously.  What they are seeing 
     surpasses their imagination.

     FULL SHOT - HELMUT, CHILDREN

     SHOOTING from a HIGH ANGLE as the procession moves toward 
     the CAMERA.  Helmut looks back at his charges from time to 
     time, smiling and waving and always puffing away on the 
     harmonica.  The children smile back, some timidly and some a 
     bit fearfully, but all smile.

     PAN SHOT - PARADE

     CAMERA PANS in on the children as they march behind Helmut.  
     We see some of them strutting, their little arms swinging 
     freely.  Some of the little ones have to skip to keep up 
     with the others.  They are all smiling.

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT

     With each step, Helmut looks about, his eyes searching heaven, 
     praying for the miracle that will save the children... the 
     sudden blast of thunder, the striking down of the guards.

     CLOSE SHOT - SERGEANT, GUARDS

     As they follow the parade warily, almost as if expecting a 
     trick.  They wear scowls worn into their faces by long use.

     MED. SHOT - BUILDING - HELMUT'S POV

     Its steel door gapes open.  Through the open doorway we can 
     see a bare room in which what appears to be shower heads 
     jutting from the wall.  A single ceiling light gives the 
     room a stark appearance.  The CAMERA PULLS BACK and UP as 
     the procession comes up toward the building.

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT

     Despair fills his eyes as he realizes that there is to be no 
     miracle.  He looks ahead into the room, his courage fails 
     him and he stops so abruptly that the children behind him 
     run into his legs.  He turns and looks at them, then back to 
     the door.

     WIDER ANGLE

     Almost reluctantly, Helmut stands aside.  He tries to smile, 
     but the result is almost grotesque.  He tries to speak, but 
     no words come.  The Sergeant and the guard drift up toward 
     him, scowling.  Gently, Helmut tousles the hair of little 
     Willie and steers him through the door into the room.  The 
     other children follow him hesitantly.  Helmut puts the 
     harmonica to his lips and begins playing again.

     ANOTHER ANGLE - TAKING IN SERGEANT AND GUARDS

                      FIRST GUARD
          Their clothes!  They've got to 
          undress.

     The sergeant starts to move toward the line of children, the 
     Sergeant grabs his arm and stops him.

                      SERGEANT
          Leave them alone.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT, CHILDREN

     SHOOTING over Helmut's shoulder down at the children as they 
     file past him.  Each one hesitates a beat before him and 
     looks up at him.

     Their faces are wondering, but trusting.  They smile 
     tentatively.  Only the little girl with the doll hangs back, 
     waiting for something rather than fearful of entering.  When 
     all of the other children have gone in, she goes up to Helmut 
     and wordlessly holds out her hand in a silent request to 
     enter with him.  In her eyes is the absolute certainty that 
     he will.

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT - LITTLE GIRL'S POV

     He looks down at her hand for a long beat.

     MED. SHOT - HELMUT, LITTLE GIRL

     The little girl waits for Helmut, but he doesn't take her 
     hand.  Shyly, she begins to withdraw it.  Suddenly, Helmut 
     reaches out and grabs her hand, clutching it desperately as 
     he needs her innocence to control the panic that is tearing 
     at him.  Holding on to her to steady himself, they walk 
     together into the room, the CAMERA PANNING with them.

                                           CUT TO:

     INT. CHAMBER - DAY

     ANGLE to the door as Helmut and little girl enter.  Suddenly, 
     the door slams shut behind them.  Helmut whirls to it 
     instinctively, as if to shove it open or cry out for help, 
     but he does neither.

     CLOSE SHOT - HELMUT

     His face is pressed against the steel door.  He fights the 
     panic within him.  Then, he quickly wipes his eyes and turns 
     back towards the children.  Slowly he takes three chunks of 
     stale bread from his coat pocket and begins juggling them, 
     at the same time waggling his head from side to side, slowly 
     at first, then more gaily.  From deep inside him comes a 
     tiny, tiny laugh.  The CAMERA PULLS BACK SLOWLY to reveal 
     the children in the f.g.  Suddenly, Helmut tosses the pieces 
     of bread high, high into the air and stretches out his arms 
     to encompass all the children.  As they gather around him, 
     they take up his soft laugh, timidly at first, then more 
     assuredly until the chamber resounds with gentle laughter.

                                           CUT TO:

     IF ANOTHER MAN'S CHILD IS THREATENED AND YOU MOVE NOT TO 
     PROTECT IT, THE CHILDREN OF ALL MEN ARE IN JEOPARDY AND YOU 
     STAND AS GUILTY AS THOSE WHO THREATEN.

     JOHN F. O'BRIEN

                                          FADE OUT

     THE END



