As a little girl, Joan has a violent and supernatural vision.
She returns home to find her village burning.
Her sister Catherine tries to protect her by hiding her from the attacking English forces, part of a longstanding rivalry with France.
After an Englishman kills Catherine, Joan is taken in by distant relatives.

Many years later at Chinon, the Dauphin and soon to be King of France, Charles VII, receives a message from Joan.
She asks for him to provide an army for her to lead into battle against the occupying English.
He gives her an audience, where she describes her visions, and says that she is to lead the French Army to victory against the English.
Desperate, he believes her prophecy that she can ensure Charles will become the King of France.

Clad in armour, Joan leads the French army to the besieged city of Orléans, which is under the military command of Jean de Dunois.
She gives the English a chance to surrender, which they refuse.
The armies' commanders, skeptical of Joan's leadership, initiate the next morning's battle without her to take over the stockade at St. Loup.
By the time she arrives on the battlefield, the French soldiers are retreating.

Joan ends the retreat and leads her army into another charge, which succeeds in capturing the fort.
They proceed to the Tourelles, a small but secure stronghold commanded by Sir William Glasdale, which will be much more difficult to take.
Joan gives the English another chance to surrender, which they refuse.

Joan leads the French soldiers to attack the Tourelles, and the English defenders inflict heavy casualties on them.
Joan is struck in the chest with an arrow.
The severity of her wound causes great concern within the French army, whose men she has inspired.
The next morning she rides before the troops and leads them in a second attack.

As the English army regroups, the French army moves to face them across an open field.
Joan rides alone toward the English and offers them a final chance to surrender and return to England.
The English accept her offer and retreat.

Informed of Joan's victory, the Duke of Bedford wants Joan of Arc defeated.
Joan returns to Rheims to witness the coronation of Charles VII of France.
Her military campaigns continue to the walls of Paris.
As she does not receive requested reinforcements, the siege is a failure.
Joan tells King Charles VII to give her another army, but he refuses, saying he now prefers diplomacy over warfare.
Believing she threatens his position, Charles conspires to get rid of Joan by letting her get captured by enemy forces.
She is taken prisoner by the pro-English Burgundians at Compiègne, who sell her to the English.

Charged with the crime of heresy, based on her claim of visions and signs from God, she is tried in an ecclesiastical court proceeding.
The trial is forced by the English occupational government.
They ask her to take an oath of loyalty, which she refuses.
The English wish to quickly condemn and execute Joan, as English soldiers are afraid to fight while she remains alive.
The Bishop expresses his fear of wrongfully executing someone who might have received visions from God.

About to be burned for heresy, Joan is distraught as a Christian that she will be executed without having her confession heard.
Bishop Cauchon tells her she must recant her visions before he can hear her confession.
Joan signs the recantation.
The relieved Bishop shows the paper to the English, saying that Joan can no longer be burned as a heretic.

The English devise another way to trap her.
English soldiers go into Joan's cell, rip her clothes, and give her men's clothing to wear.
They say that she conjured a spell to make the new clothing appear, which suggests that she is a witch.
(The church executed known witches.)
Although suspecting the English are lying, the Bishop abandons Joan to her fate, and she is burned alive in the marketplace of Rouen.