While driving cross-country from Boston to San Diego in their new Jeep Grand Cherokee, Jeff Taylor and his wife Amy narrowly miss colliding with a beat-up Ford F-150 that darts in front of them from a connecting road on a deserted highway.
Later, while stopped at a gas station, the truck's driver, Earl, exchanges hostile words with Jeff before the couple resume their journey.
Shortly afterwards, their Jeep breaks down in the middle of the desert.
Leaving Jeff with the car, Amy accepts a ride from a passing big rig trucker named Red Barr driving a Peterbilt 385, to get to a nearby diner and call for help.
Jeff eventually discovers that the Jeep's battery connections have been suspiciously tampered with, and, after reconnecting them, drives to the diner, only to find that no one has seen his wife.
When he catches up with Barr on the road and forces him to stop, the trucker claims he has never seen Jeff or his wife before.
Jeff hails a passing sheriff, named Boyd, but a brief search of Barr's truck yields no sign of Amy, and he is let go.

Jeff then goes to a police station where he is advised by a deputy to go back to the diner and wait for his wife.
There Jeff meets with a simpleton mechanic named Billy, who says he saw Amy arrive in one truck and leave in another.
He tells Jeff where they have taken her, but refuses to speak with the police, thinking that they are involved.
Jeff heads to the location Billy mentioned, but is ambushed on a back road by Earl, and escapes by driving his Jeep into a river.
Abandoning the Jeep and later circling back to watch his attackers salvage the Jeep from the water, Jeff is discovered and knocked out by Billy, an accomplice who had feigned mental impairment earlier.

Jeff awakens in the trunk of a car surrounded by Earl, Billy, another accomplice, Al, a tow-truck driver, and their leader, Red Barr.
Red tells Jeff that his wife will be released in exchange for $90,000 that the kidnappers think Jeff has in his bank account.
Knowing that he only has a small fraction of the assumed amount, Jeff enters a nearby bank to withdraw what little money he has.
After a failed attempt to alert the bank manager to his danger, Jeff steals marked money ribbons and a letter opener from the manager's desk; Jeff uses money ribbons to packet $1 bills in-between two $100 bills, fooling the kidnappers.
With the ransom now in hand, Jeff is then instructed by phone to leave town, where he is picked up and bound with duct tape by Earl in his pickup truck.

While gloating about how easy Jeff and his wife were to abduct by rigging their car to break down after leaving the gas station, as well as bragging that he intends to kill Jeff and his wife anyway, Earl discovers Jeff's ruse with the ransom.
At exactly the same moment, Jeff frees himself and stabs Earl in the chest with the letter opener.
After a struggle in the speeding, swerving pickup, Jeff takes over the vehicle, bounds Earl, and tortures him to reveal his rendezvous with Red at a local truck stop.
Sheriff Boyd appears in his patrol car and, seeing the swerving pickup, calls for backup and stops the vehicle.
After Jeff exits the truck with Earl's pistol in hand, a stressed Boyd mistakes the situation and forces Jeff at gunpoint down onto the road.
Earl frees himself and shoots Boyd with another pistol concealed in his boot.
Just as Earl is about to shoot Jeff, a wounded Boyd shoots and kills Earl.
Jeff uses Boyd's radio to call for an ambulance and heads to the truck stop Earl mentioned.

At the rest stop, Jeff avoids the police looking for him in connection to the shooting of Boyd, and then spots Red talking on a payphone with another accomplice.
Jeff follows Red to his truck where he jumps under the moving truck as Red drives away.
Jeff loses his pistol while climbing aboard, but stows away to Red's farm at which he arrives early the next morning.
Hiding in a barn, Jeff watches as Red and his remaining accomplices take a bound and gagged Amy and lock her in a freezer in the barn's cellar, leaving her to die.
Unable to open the locked cellar door, Jeff finds a gun in Al's truck and uses it to hold Red, his accomplices, and his wife and son at gunpoint, demands the cellar key.
Billy escapes, but Jeff forces the rest of the group to safely release Amy from the freezer before locking them in the cellar.
Jeff and Amy then flee in a stolen Chevrolet C-20 pickup, while Billy frees Red and Al, who then pursue the Taylors in their respective vehicles.

During the ensuing chase, Billy is killed in a fiery crash when Jeff forces his car off the road, while the trailer from Red's truck detaches, causing Al to forcefully crash into it.
Undeterred, Red attempts to ram Jeff's vehicle off a bridge, trapping Amy's leg underneath the dashboard.
Jeff rushes out of the vehicle and into Red's big rig, struggling over the steering wheel, causing Red's truck to nearly fall off the edge and become suspended by a steel bridge support.
Jeff then battles Red violently on the suspended big rig, eventually hurling Red to the rocks below.
Jeff frees Amy from the dashboard in which she pulls the automatic shift on their pickup, causing the semi to fall on Red and crush him.
Sitting on the edge of the bridge beside their mangled pickup truck, Jeff and Amy embrace each other.