In 1951, Peter Appleton is an up-and-coming young screenwriter, who learns that he has been accused of being a communist because he attended an antiwar meeting in college years before, a meeting he claims he only attended to impress a girl.
In an instant, his new film is pushed back for a few months, the credit is given to someone else, his movie star girlfriend leaves him, and his contract with the studio is dropped.

Appleton gets drunk and accidentally drives his car off a bridge and into a river.
He is knocked unconscious, wakes up on an ocean beach with amnesia, and finds himself in a small town called Lawson after being discovered by Stan Keller who takes him to the local doctor, Doc Stanton.
The townsfolk believe him to be Luke Trimble, one of the town boys killed in World War II, who just happens to look exactly like Peter, and embrace him as a symbol of hope.
"Luke" is at first mildly hesitant to embrace this life but he eventually settles in to "his old life", and with his "father" Harry and his "girlfriend" Adele Stanton, starts to restore The Majestic theater, an old movie house that has been closed because of hard times.

A few days later, the town throws a welcome home party for "Luke".
Peter, Harry, Adele, and the other staff members of The Majestic and the rest of the townsfolk work together to restore the theater to its former glory.
Peter also convinces the town to finally display a memorial that President Franklin D. Roosevelt had commissioned after the war, but which the town did not have the heart to erect.

Peter recovers from his amnesia when The Majestic shows a movie he wrote called "Sand Pirates of the Sahara."
At the same moment, Harry suffers a massive heart attack before the reel change, halting the movie.
Doc tells Peter that Harry's condition is fatal and that he will die soon.
At Harry's deathbed, Peter lets him die believing that he is really Harry's son.
Immediately after Harry's funeral, Peter tells Adele that he has regained his memory and knows that he is not Luke.
Adele admits that she suspected it.
Before he can break the news to the other townspeople, federal agents confront him publicly.
The federal agents present Peter with a summons to appear before Congress.

Peter's agent advises him to "admit" and then denounce his past associations with the Communist Party, and presents him with a list of named "communists" that he could read before the committee to clear his name.
Initially, Peter reluctantly agrees to this plan, but an argument with Adele and a letter he finds in a pocket-sized copy of the U.S. Constitution that was written as a sort of "goodbye letter" from the real Luke trying to explain to Adele that he knows he might die for a real cause, inspire Peter to instead confront the committee.

At the hearing, headed up by Congressman Doyle and televised, with the citizens of Lawson also watching, Peter makes an impassioned speech about American ideals, which wins the crowd over.
Fearing a political backlash, the lawmakers let him go free.
Soon afterwards, Peter,in disgust, leaves Hollywood and his career.

Peter then returns to Lawson, fearing an unwelcome reception.
Instead, he receives a hero's welcome from the town's citizens, who have come to respect him as an individual.
Peter then resumes ownership and management of The Majestic, he gets married to Adele, and the two have a son together.