

<b><!--
</b>if (window!= top)
top.location.href=location.href
<b>// -->
</b>
THE HORSE WHISPERER


     The Horse Whisperer

     Screenplay by
     Eric Roth

     Revised by
     Richard LaGravenese

     Screenplay by
     Erich Roth

     Based on the Novel by Nicholas Evans
     Revised by
     Richard LaGravenese

     Second Draft
     1/21/97



     FADE IN:

     A DREAM:

     INT. STABLES; PILGRIM'S STALL - MORNING

     Sunlit illuminates the darkened stable, highlighting the 
     contours of a magnificent HORSE (PILGRIM) in surreal, dream-
     like imagery: his legs, his muscles, his sheen, his mane... 
     his eyes. He shakes his head and stamps his feet. He seems 
     confined. Eager to run.

     INT. STABLES - MORNING

     Pilgrim bursts through the stall and runs out the stables 
     into a blinding white morning.

     EXT. AN OPEN FIELD LEADING TO WOODS - BRIGHT MORNING

     Whiteness. Snow and sky without any discernible line between.

     Camera is POV, as if on the horse, riding through the 
     whiteness. Snow kicks up from the side. We hear the breathing 
     of the horse. As we travel on hills, through trees, we 
     experience of sense of wild, exhilarating freedom.

     We hear the giggles of a GIRL (GRACE) on the horse. An 
     occasional line;

                      GRACE (O.S.)
          Yeah, fly boy... that's it... go... 
          go... go...

     END OF DREAM as we CUT TO:

     INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM - MORNING

     Grace awakens, calmly. Takes a breath. Slides out of bed and 
     stands before a window, overlooking a beautiful Connecticut 
     country house. We see a snow-covered field and distant woods. 
     Grace presses her faces against the cold, frosted window 
     eager to get out.

     INT. MACLEAN NEW YORK APARTMENT - MORNING

     Alarm rings, ANNIE MACLEAN awakens. She shuts the alarm and 
     scoots up in bed. She waits. Seconds later the television 
     across the foot of her bed turns on from a timer -- to a CNN 
     24 NEWS channel.

     INT. HALLWAY/ANNIE & ROBERT'S BEDROOM - MORNING

     Grace, fully dressed except for her boots, tiptoes past a 
     partially opened bedroom door. Her father ROBERT is asleep, 
     alone, on his huge king size bed.

     INT. MACLEAN FARMHOUSE KITCHEN - MORNING

     Grace is putting on her boots on a bench beside a back door. 
     She is wearing her mother's outfit. As she slides the boot 
     on, we see behind her a row of framed photos -- Robert, Grace 
     and Annie in happy times.

     She slaps a note on the refrigerator, with a magnet -- "Gone 
     riding. Back around 10. Love, G."

     EXT. MACLEAN FARMHOUSE, BACK ENTRANCE - MORNING

     Grace slips on her jacket and hat as she comes down the 
     steps, her feet hitting the walk...

     EXT. CENTRAL PARK - MORNING

     Annie's feet hit the ground, running -- her breath showing in 
     the cold air. She passes other joggers with ease. She crosses 
     the street and heads for an elegant CPW building.

     INT. MACLEAN'S NEW YORK APARTMENT - MORNING

     Dressed in running clothes, Annie opens the door and picks up 
     several newspapers that were delivered. She carries them into 
     the kitchen and sets them beside a huge stack of publications, 
     magazines, papers, etc... Knowing she must read all of them at 
     some point, she breathes a disgusted sign. She thumbs through 
     the POST as she pours herself a cup of coffee. Something 
     catches her eyes and she snarls:

                      ANNIE
          That little shit!

     She dials a portable phone and moves through the apartment as 
     she talks:

                      ANNIE
          Hi Lucy?... Did I wake you?... Have 
          you read the Post?... They've got a 
          little item about me and Fiske. He's 
          saying I fired him and that I faked 
          the new circulation figures.. Ha, ha... 
          Oh, please... It's the last act of a 
          desperate gnome... Set up a phone call 
          with Don Farlow for 9:30...

     Throughout the phone call, Annie is selecting clothes, 
     turning on the shower, undressing...

     EXT. DYER HORSE FARM - MORNING

     The snow has stopped falling. Grace walks along a hill, hands 
     in pocket. Spread out on the landscape are horses, on a horse 
     farm, standing like statues in the white covered fields.

     As Grace comes along the hill, we see another GIRL (JUDITH) 
     coming from the opposite direction. She doesn't have Grace's 
     lean elegance but her warm, friendly smile brightens her 
     face. Upon reaching her, Grace returns the smile with a hug.

                      JUDITH
          It's warmer than I thought.

                      GRACE
          You want to go to a movie tonight?

                      JUDITH
          I thought your mom's coming up?

                      GRACE
               (prickly)
          So?

     Judith immediately senses a problem so she continues casually, 
     as they begin walking away from Camera...

                      JUDITH
          My parents are having friends from 
          college over. They're really nice... 
          They have this gorgeous son who wants 
          to be a forest ranger.

                      GRACE
          Can I come? I'll start a fire...

     Judith laughs as they continue talking, their voices trailing 
     off, as the girls head for the stables.

     INT. STABLES, THE DYER HORSE FARM - MORNING

     There are several horses in their stalls. Grace and Judith 
     enter, talking, carrying their English saddles. Judith stops 
     at a stall, disappearing into it as she says "Hello?"..., 
     Grace continues to the end stall.

     Pilgrim (the horse from the dream) stands looking at her.

                      GRACE
          Hello, beautiful boy.

     He's a massive figure beside her but she shows no inhibition. 
     She enters, touching his muzzle. He plays with her by nudging 
     her back.

                      GRACE
          Stop... Will you stop!

     EXT. DYER HORSE FARM - MORNING

     They lead their horses, now saddled and ready, from the barn. 
     Pilgrim tosses his head, prancing, playing with the snow.

                      GRACE
          Show-off.

     The girls mount the horses and ride off together.

     INT. ANNIE'S MAGAZINE OFFICE - MID-MORNING

     Annie, casually dressed, enters the empty offices of her 
     magazine. She turns on the light, revealing a large row of 
     stalls and glassed in private offices. Everywhere we look, we 
     see indications of the kind of magazine she edits.

     She strolls to her office -- the largest -- surrounded by 
     windows. The office walls are covered with photos, most of 
     which are COVER STORIES ON ANNIE.

     (One photo is of Annie's father MARTIN. A BRITISH AMBASSADOR 
     with his young daughter on his lap, her arms affectionately 
     around his neck. Her mother stands right behind them, posing 
     like a member of the royal family.)

     Annie sits and takes a breath. The only photo on her desk is 
     a family portrait, taken when Annie was given the Crystal 
     Award -- Robert, Grace, herself and the Award. She checks her 
     watch -- it is almost 9:30.

     INT. MACLEAN FARMHOUSE, MASTER BEDROOM/CLOSET - MID-MORNING

     A WALK-IN CLOSET of the master bedroom; one side is Annie's, 
     one side is Robert's.

     Robert stands before his bureau in the closet -- he has just 
     showered and is putting on his watch and ring which lay 
     beside his cologne assortment. A FRAMED PHOTO OF HE AND ANNIE 
     in India -- younger, vibrant, in love... when they first met.

     THE PHONE RINGS. Robert enters into the bedroom to pick up.

                      ROBERT
          Hello?

     INSERT ANNIE: They speak in dulled, emotionless voices:

                      ANNIE
          It's me.

                      ROBERT
          Hi.

                      ANNIE
          Hi.

     Awkward pause.

                      ROBERT
          So, what, uh, what train are you taking?

                      ANNIE
          I should be in by two.

                      ROBERT
          Okay. You want me to pick you up?

                      ANNIE
          Sure... What's Grace up to?

                      ROBERT
          Riding with Judith.

     Beat.

                      ANNIE
          I'm sorry about last night. I shouldn't 
          have brought it up over the phone.

                      ROBERT
          That's okay. We have to talk about it 
          and we're not always in the same place
          ... so... I just have to get used to it.
               (beat)
          What do you want to do about dinner?

                      ANNIE
          I don't know. We'll figure it out.

     Pause. There is a lot unspoken but understood between them. 
     Annie's other phone line rings. Robert hears it as well.

                      ROBERT
          Okay. We'll see you later then.

                      ANNIE
          Yeah. Bye.

     Annie picks up the other line and her manner brightens, her 
     energy boosts...

                      ANNIE
          DON! My love, how are you? Did you hear 
          about Fiske?... No, suing is too 
          civilized. Can't we get your friend at Le 
          Cirque to serve him a fatal piece of 
          poached salmon?... Ha, ha... That's even 
          better...

     EXT. CONNECTICUT COUNTRYSIDE - MORNING

     Long Shot of the girls riding at an easy pacing, talking all 
     the time. Grace is an elegant rider, quite self-assured for a 
     13-year-old... We come into the scene at the moment the 
     girls have just shared a secret or a fantasy. Judith is 
     giggling uncontrollably. Grace laughs as she says:

                      GRACE
          ...Oh, come on! You think the same thing!

                      JUDITH
          I just could never say it!

     They stop at the end of the field, facing the woods.

                      GRACE
          Do you want to go around by the 
          old road?

                      JUDITH
          Why don't we just cut through the 
          woods?

     Grace nods. They ride into the woods, continuing their talk.

     EXT. WOODS - MORNING

     The girls ride down, along a stand of hickories and poplars 
     to a RIVER. They stop the horses and their conversation, to 
     listen to the sound of the water. Below them, off in the 
     distance, they can just make out a two-lane country road.

                      GRACE
          You want to go down or stay along 
          the river?

                      JUDITH
          We already did the river. Let's go down 
          and across the old bridge. We can circle 
          back.

     They begin to make their way.

     INT. ANNIE'S OFFICE - MORNING

     Annie's office is now crowded with a dozen or so employees; 
     sitting on the couch, on the window sills, on the arms of 
     chairs, against the walls... Paper bag emptied of bagels, 
     cream cheese, orange juice, paper plates...

     Hand Held Camera captures the energy of the room as it 
     follows overlapping lines, laughter, etc... yet, no matter how 
     casual it all seems, Annie is very much at the center of 
     control... We enter the scene of LAUGHTER, as Annie asks 
     KEVIN, a feature writer:

                      ANNIE
          ... So what did you say to her?

                      KEVIN
          I said, thank you very much...
               (LAUGHTER, AD LIBS)
          I really should do the interview... But 
          perhaps if you'd like to have dinner...

     LAUGHTER... Everyone starts Ad Libbing...

                      VARIOUS CHARACTERS
          Dinner!!... He's so cute.... Why don't I 
          get those kind of interviews?... Look, 
          he has husband number eight written on 
          his forehead...

                      ANNIE
          All right, all right, all right... Kevin, 
          good job. Write the interview. If I don't 
          like it, you may have to sleep with her 
          for a follow-up!
               (laughter)
          Now... I'm thinking about another fashion 
          designer spread... Who's news out there?

     Characters shout out designer names and comments as the phone 
     rings and LUCY picks up... speaking amdist the talking...

                      LUCY
          Hold on.
               (presses hold)
          Gottschalk.

     The room goes dead quiet, instantly. Then erupts in laughter 
     as everyone realizes it. Annie, however, waves her hand as 
     she takes the phone...

                      ANNIE
          Quiet... Quiet!

     Everyone obeys. Annie presses SPEAKER PHONE.

                      ANNIE
          David?

                      DAVID GOTTSCHALK (VO)
          Who's there?

                      ANNIE
          Everyone. Working overtime. Just for you.

                      DAVID GOTTSCHALK (VO)
          Did you speak to Farlow?

                      ANNIE
          Yes. We're suing.

                      DAVID GOTTSCHALK (VO)
          Is that absolutely necessary? It'll just 
          make it a bigger story.

                      ANNIE
          David, he signed an agreement that he 
          wouldn't talk to the press and he's 
          libeled me by saying I faked the figures. 
          You're not going soft on me, are you?

     Silence. Gottschalk doesn't immediately respond. Everyone 
     waits. Covert looks between characters suggest this is 
     interesting -- has Annie over-stepped her bounds with the 
     magazine's owner? Annie waits without a shred of anxiety -- 
     even though she might have some. Finally:

                      DAVID GOTTSCHALK (VO)
          Well, I suppose we could use another 
          good public feud...

                      ANNIE
          Exactly...

     Everyone silently acknowledges Annie guts and influence.

     EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - MORNING

     It's perfectly still. We are looking down an empty TWO-LANE 
     ROAD covered with fresh snow. We see the girls slowly riding 
     out of the woods, talking. They cross the road and start up 
     into the woods on the other side... They are trying to sing a 
     LIZ PHAIR song, "CHOPSTICKS"

                      GRACE/JUDITH
               (singing)
          "I met him at a party and he told me how 
          he like to drive me home... He said he 
          liked to do it backwards..."

                      GRACE
               (singing)
          "... I said it--"

                      JUDITH
                (singing)
          "... and I said that"...

                      GRACE
               (stops singing)
          No, wait, it just goes... "he said he 
          liked to do-"...

     Suddenly there's the SOUND OF THE METAL OF JUDITH'S HORSE 
     scraping on some sheer ice hidden under the soft snow. Judith 
     notices first...

                      JUDITH
          What was --

     The horse staggers... Judith looks to Grace --

                      JUDITH
          Grace!

     The horse tries to find tracing with his hindfeet, kicking 
     up sprays of snow and ice shards. The horse suddenly falls on 
     the ice and goes down hard on its knees...

                      GRACE
          JUDITH!

     The horse stumbles to get back on its feet, slipping again. 
     Frightened, it rears and Judith, caught off balance, is 
     thrown, her foot catching in the stirrup...

                      JUDITH
          GRAAACE!

     Her horse, unable to find its balance, starts to slide backward 
     down the incline.

                      GRACE
          PILGRIM, COME ON! MOVE!

     Grace, directly behind Judith, tries to turn Pilgrim to avoid 
     being hit by the errant horse.

     What follows, we see from Grace's perspective. The details 
     that form the images and sounds of Grace's mind are fast, 
     disembodies, almost surreal as --

     Judith's horse bulldozes into Pilgrim, taking his legs out 
     from under him, sending both horses careening down the icy 
     slope. Grace hangs onto Pilgrim's neck. Judith, her leg 
     helplessly tangled in the stirrup, is dragged, her head 
     bouncing on the frozen ground.

     They slide all the way back down to the COUNTRY ROAD. Pilgrim 
     is the first to find his legs and stand. Grace manages to sit 
     up in the saddle. She sees Judith's horse stumbling back onto 
     its feet, one of his legs broken at the ankles, walking in 
     confused circles, dragging Judith -- her face bleeding, her 
     leg hanging from the stirrup.

                      GRACE
               (frightened)
          Jude, you okay?

                      JUDITH
               (softly, crying)
          I'm okay... I'm okay.

     She tries to extricate her leg from the stirrup.

     Grace sees it before she hears it. A GLINT off of steel. We 
     then hear the rumbling SOUND of a TRUCK coming around the 
     bend... The Girls on their horses in the middle of the road... 
     The Truck, an 18 wheeler carrying logging equipment, comes 
     around the turn... Grace grabs the bridle, trying to get 
     Judith's horse out of the road... The driver, seeing them, lays 
     on the air horn. The Horses bolt at the sound, the bridle 
     slipping out of Grace's hand...

                      GRACE
          JUUDE!!!

     ... The horses turn apart. The Driver starts furiously 
     downshifting, trying to brake... He seems to get it under 
     control when suddenly THE TRUCK SKIDS on some ice. It begins 
     to slide, out of control, the truck bed and the cab jack-
     knifing. The truck literally plows over the helpless Judith 
     and her horse -- the horse going down on the pavement, Judith 
     disappearing under him. The truck's cab, like a mythic 
     monster, heads right for Grace and Pilgrim... Grace looks 
     right into the Driver's helpless, frightened eyes... Suddenly, 
     Pilgrim rears up at the truck, sending Grace flying, bouncing 
     her off the pavement and under the wheel of the truck.

     Pilgrim instinctively jumps onto the hood of the truck, his 
     hooves caught between the rear-view mirrors like some 
     grotesque ornament. His head and chest slams into the window, 
     shattering through the glass.

     And then it is still.

     The truck has stopped halfway in the road. Judith's horse 
     lies in the road, motionless. Pilgrim, on the truck's hood, 
     his legs splayed, stuck, his head and chest, bleeding. He 
     shrieks, struggling to get to his feet. He manages to free 
     his legs and, stepping off the cab onto the road, walks off, 
     wounded, in pain, into the sanctuary of the woods...

     The Driver stumbles out of the cab, his head bleeding, in 
     shock. He sits on the ground. All we hear is the sound of the 
     river and the wind in the trees.

     Grace, halfway under the truck, frozen, stares up at the 
     beautiful morning sky.

     WE HEAR THE SOUND OF A HELICOPTER...

     INT. MACLEAN FARMHOUSE/KITCHEN - LATER MORNING

     ANGLE ON GRACE'S NOTE on the refrigerator as Robert enters 
     from the outside with two bags of groceries. He places them on 
     the counter near the PHONE MACHINE. He sees ONE MESSAGE is 
     there. He presses PLAY as he puts away the groceries.

     A BEAT LATER the PHONE RINGS and he picks up, with the machine 
     still playing...

                      ROBERT
               (on phone)
          Hello? Paul, hi -- are you guys back? 
          How was it? Oh that sounds great. Oh 
          Paul.. hold on...

                      LIZ
               (on machine)
          Robert! Are you there?... Robert! It's 
          Liz!... Look, there's... there's been 
          an accident... Uh... Jesus... uh...

     As Robert listens, the voice of Liz's on the machine from 
     inside, pulls his attention. On hearing "accident," Robert 
     lowers the receiver, frozen, as he listens to Liz...

                      LIZ
               (on machine)
           Robert, just call me on my call phone... 
           1-917-449-7805...

     EXT. THE WOODS - LATE MORNING

     Pilgrim is hiding in the shadows under an old railroad bridge, 
     standing up to his knees in the river. His chest is cut open, 
     bleeding. His face cut, contorted and swollen. LIZ HAMMOND, 
     the local veterinarian, hides a hypodermic needle in her 
     jacket, quietly walking into the water.

     A Policeman is going into the water downstream from Pilgrim, 
     whose chest is heaving, blood drips into the water. He 
     watches Liz. She is almost to him when suddenly he bolts, 
     running upstream.

     The Policeman behind him shouts and waves his arm. Frightened, 
     Pilgrim wheels back toward Liz, who manages to stick the hypo 
     in his neck. He rears, knocking her down, then runs out of 
     the river, the hypo still in his neck. He runs for the 
     sanctuary of the woods.

     INT. TRAIN - LATE MORNING

     Annie sits on a train -- her laptop out, notes beside her, 
     her cellular phone, ever-ready. The train passes through 
     beautiful countryside but Annie is focused on an editorial 
     she's writing.

     The train pulls into a station and stops, causing Annie to 
     take a break and stretch her arms and neck. She looks out the 
     window for the first time and sees:

     A MAN, his hands in his pockets, waiting on the platform. She 
     watches as the Man holds out his arms to his two young 
     children, who are getting off the train. He picks them up as 
     his wife enters the scene, kissing him and wrapping her arm 
     around his waist. The children talk a mile a minute and the 
     father listens to every word.

     Annie doesn't even realize she is staring. As they leave the 
     platform, she turns back to her laptop. As the train begins 
     to move again, Annie returns to work.

     HER CELLULAR PHONE RINGS. She answers.

                      ANNIE
          Yeah?... Hi. I made the 1:00 so...

     The expression on her face sinks into a stunned panic.

     INT. HOSPITAL, CONNECTICUT - DAY

     Annie is running through the corridors, her bags in tow. She 
     sees Robert standing in the corridor talking to a DOCTOR. She 
     runs for them.

     When she appears, Robert and the Doctor stop their 
     conversation. Robert looks to Annie, who is waiting for news.

                      ANNIE
          WHAT!?

     Robert is teary eyed, beaten down.

                      ROBERT
          Judith's dead.

     Annie's horrified, waiting for news of Grace.

                      ANNIE
          What about Grace?

                      ROBERT
          She was in pretty bad shape. They've 
          done a C.A.T. Scan -- she has some 
          hemorrhaging...

                      DOCTOR
          But nothing we can't handle...

                      ANNIE
               (impatient)
          Where is she now?

                      DOCTOR
          Surgery.

                      ANNIE
          Surgery! For what-?

                      ROBERT
               (interrupting)
          Annie, her leg was shattered -- what 
          they call the distal epi.. epi..

                      DOCTOR
          Distal epicondyle of the femur...

                      ROBERT
               (quietly, crying)
          They have to take the leg off.

     Annie responds without tears and cries but with a quiet 
     shock. We can tell her mind is racing, trying to process the 
     information, until finally she asks:

                      ANNIE
          Which leg?

     The Doctor and Robert are surprised by the question.

                      ROBERT
          What difference does it make?

     Annie stares for a beat, then nods apologetically.

     EXT. WOODS - DAY

     Pilgrim is sedated, lying in his own blood in the snow, 
     surrounded by Police and trackers. He is being attended to by 
     LIZ HAMMOND, who is dictating to her assistant:

                      LIZ
          ... His skull, cheek, and nose are 
          severely fractured. He has a deep 
          chest wound. I'm not even sure it 
          can be closed.

                      LOCAL TRACKER
               (deadpan, local accent)
          Animal should be put down -- anybody can 
          see that.

     Liz looks up to him, resentfully, but knows he's right.

     INT. GRACE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

     Camera moves from Grace's face down her body to Robert's 
     hand, which rubs her good leg. He looks at her lovingly, 
     pushing the hair from her forehead.

     Annie, needing to do something, tenderly straightens Grace's 
     blankets. It is plain to see where her leg had once been. 
     Robert can't look. Annie, one to face her fears, bravely 
     looks at it head on. She notices the I.V. Bag and rises on:

                      ANNIE
          That bag's almost empty.

                      ROBERT
               (looking)
          No, it's got a little left. They'll be 
          in to change it.

                      ANNIE
               (as she exits)
          Robert, you leave it up these people...!

     Robert is about to respond but Annie is already out the door. 
     We hear the O.S. DIALOGUE as Robert listens.

                      ANNIE (O.S.)
          Excuse me, my daughter needs a new 
          I.V.

                      NURSE (O.S.)
          We have her down, we'll be right in.

                      ANNIE (O.S.)
          I'd like it taken care of now please.

     Annie enters first.

                      ANNIE
          You have to keep on top of these people 
          or else they just sit on their --

     But Robert is ignoring her. Facing Grace, smoothing away her 
     hair. He's giving her the silent treatment. Annie knows this 
     means Robert doesn't approve of her dictatorial behavior. 
     Annoyed, she turns away as well.

     The Nurse enters with a new bag and begins to replace the old 
     one as Robert backs away.

                      ROBERT
          I'm sorry.

                      ANNIE
          Tch. What are you --

     Annie, about to respond to his inappropriate politeness, is 
     stopped by Robert, who finally looks at her. It's a powerful 
     look that tells her to calm down and shut up. It's a look 
     that, for all of Robert's sensitivity, affects Annie. She 
     gets the message and stays calm.

     As the nurse leaves, Annie is about to say thank you, but 
     Robert beats her to it.

                      ROBERT
          Thank you.

     Annie and Robert stand facing each other, when the PHONE RINGS. 
     Annie picks up.

     INTERCUT

     EXT. WOODS - DAY

     LIZ HAMMOND on a cellular, walking away from the crowd.

                      LIZ
          Annie, it's Liz. How's Grace?

                      ANNIE
               (journalistic)
          Her leg was shattered so they had to, 
          uh... remove it. She had some bleeding 
          but it's under control.

                      LIZ
          Oh God, Annie, I'm so sorry. I... I 
          know you're being hit with a low now, 
          I don't want to take too much of your 
          time but I have to talk to you about 
          Pilgrim.

     Annie hears the name as if it's some distant echo she can't 
     quite identify; Liz speaks quickly as Annie watches Grace 
     breathing in her sleep --

                      LIZ
          It's not good. I've never seen an animal 
          with these injuries still breathing. I 
          know this is difficult to hear right now 
          I'd like your permission to put him down. 
          It's the really best thing we can do for --

     That was too much information for Annie;

                      ANNIE
          Wait, uh, I, I don't understand. Start 
          again -- He's alive...

                      LIZ
          Yes, but he's in a tremendous pain...

                      ANNIE
          Well, of course, right...

                      ROBERT
          What is it?

                      LIZ
               (overlapping)
          We really shouldn't wait...

                      ANNIE
               (overlapping)
          Hold on, Liz...
               (to Robert)
          Something about Pilgrim...

     The Doctor pokes his head in.

                      DOCTOR
               (overlapping)
          Mr. and Mrs. MacLean...

                      ANNIE
               (overlapping)
          -- put him down. She says...

                      ROBERT
               (overlapping, to Doctor)
          Yes. Hi.
               (to Annie)
          Tell her you'll call her back.

     He exits with the Doctor.

                      ANNIE
          Liz, listen, the Doctor's here and I 
          just can't, uh... talk now... so --

                      LIZ
               (interrupting)
          I understand, but Annie, please...

                      ANNIE
               (overlapping)
          - See, what you can do for him --...

                      LIZ
               (overlapping)
          Annie, no matter what I do, this horse 
          will never be the same.

                      ANNIE
          ... I just don't know right now! Do 
          whatever you can and when Grace is --

                      LIZ
          It isn't right to make him suffer...

                      ANNIE
          And I can say the same thing about my 
          daughter! But she is suffering! Can you 
          solve that problem!
               (Liz is quiet)
          I can't deal with this now, Liz! If you 
          need a yes or no right now, then no -- 
          don't do it! Not until I know Grace is 
          all right. Now, please! Just do what you 
          can. Okay?
                 (softer)
          Please.

     Liz is stopped by Annie's almost pleading tone.

                      LIZ
          All right...

     They hang up. Annie takes a breath. Robert re-enters.

                      ANNIE
          What did he say?

                      ROBERT
          Nothing new. He's just going off duty.

     Beat. Silence.

                      ANNIE
          I'm going to get all the nurses' 
          names... It's good to know all their 
          names.

     Robert nods. But neither of them moves. They stand motionless 
     for a beat, then Annie begins to break down and eases herself 
     into Robert's arms.

     Robert embraces her, kissing her head, with an almost fatherly 
     comfort. His expression tells us it's the moment he's been 
     expecting... and wanting. Now she'll be all right, in his arms. 
     Whatever distance between them, whatever problems felt 
     insurmountable last night on the phone, are now, for the moment 
     -- for Robert -- gone.

     But Annie's expression tells us something different. Her 
     instinct to hold him was honest... but the effect isn't the 
     same anymore. Something doesn't feel right. Something isn't 
     working anymore about his comforting embrace.

                      ANNIE
          I should go get some of her things.

                      ROBERT
          No, let me go.

                      ANNIE
               (gently pushing away)
          No, I'll go. You stay... In case she 
          wakes up.

     INT. THE UNIVERSITY ANIMAL HOSPITAL, RECOVERY STALLS - NIGHT

     A line of recovery stalls with various sick and hurt animals. 
     Liz, exhausted asleep, on a chair outside a stall. There's a 
     slight scratching sound. A hoof against the stall. It gets 
     louder, awakening Liz. She gets up and looks inside the 
     paddled stall:

     Pilgrim is lying in the stall, heavily bandaged. He is waking 
     up. His first instinct is to kick at the paddled stall walls. 
     He looks at Liz, his eyes filled with madness -- enraged to 
     still be alive.

     INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM IN FARMHOUSE - NIGHT

     Annie opens the door and enters, flicking on the light. 
     Camera is on her back, as she places a small suitcase on the 
     bed and opens it. She begins her task with cool efficiency. 
     Opening drawers and closets, assessing what should be taken, 
     what isn't necessary.

     Suddenly, she stops. She feels disoriented for a moment. She 
     can't remember the last time she was inside this room. She 
     takes a moment to pause and actually look around.

     In the light, we now see more of Grace's inner sanctum. Horse 
     riding prize ribbons in various colors adorn the walls. 
     Books. A girl's bureau cluttered with teenage possession 
     ranging from childhood toys to items that suggest a reaching 
     towards adulthood. Annie examines some items, affectionately. 
     A GOOD LUCK CHARM from India sits among her things. Annie 
     takes it to pack in the suitcase.

     She notices a framed 8X10 of Grace sitting proudly atop 
     Pilgrim with Judith at her heel. She then notices the edge of 
     another picture behind this one, in the frame. She pulls the 
     Pilgrim photo out to reveal: An old 8X10 of Annie hugging 
     Grace as a toddler. With her back to Camera, Annie remembers:

     MEMORY:

     INT. GRACE'S ROOM - A DAY REMEMBERED

     Annie is playing with toddler Grace. Chasing her around the 
     room. Picking her and tossing her onto a small, toddler bed. 
     Blowing into her stomach. Grace is laughing uncontrollably.

     END OF MEMORY

     Annie slides the Pilgrim picture back into the frame, then 
     returns to her task of packing.

     INT. GRACE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

     Annie enters. No one else is there. She places the suitcase 
     on a chair and opens it. She takes out the INDIAN LUCKY CHARM 
     and some horse books, and places them on her bedside table. 
     She takes care to prop up the Lucky Charm.

     She wets a cloth with some water from a pitcher and gently 
     wipes Grace's sweaty brow... INSERT VISUAL FLASHBACK HERE, 
     instead of in Country House.

     Annie then continues unpacking the suitcase. She opens 
     Grace's closet and sees a hospital bag filled with Grace's 
     clothes at the time of the accident. Annie examines them and 
     discovers they are hers. Annie shoves the clothes into a bag 
     and starts unpacking.

     INT. HOSPITAL CAFETERIA - PRE-DAWN

     The Clock is ticking on the wall. The cafeteria is empty 
     except for one tired Intern, drinking coffee on a break.

     Robert and Annie are having a cup of coffee. In the silence, 
     they search for things to say. Until:

                      ROBERT
          I saw Judith's parents while you were 
          at the apartment...
               (Annie listens)
          I wanted to say something...
               (beat)
          But I... I was so relieved that Grace 
          was still... that it wasn't our daughter.

                      ANNIE
          We're very lucky.

                      ROBERT
               (nods)
          The funeral's on Friday.

     He rises and crosses to the self-help coffee dispenser as he 
     continues...

                      ROBERT
          Oh, uh, I meant to tell you... Alex 
          brought that fabric over...

                      ANNIE
          Okay.

                      ROBERT
          It's on the table by the phone. I didn't 
          know what to tell him...
               (returns to table, sits)
          ... Whether or not we were...
               (beat)
          ... if we still we're thinking of redoing 
          the couch.

     Annie just nods. She senses Robert is looking for some kind 
     of reassurance, but she can't give it to him. He continues;

                      ROBERT
          ... And uh... Mario called about moving 
          the wisteria?

                      ANNIE
          Oh. Right. I'll call him.

     Pause. Annie looks at her husband as he stares off to the 
     side, deep in his thoughts. She can sense he's sinking as he 
     fidgets with the napkins. She remembers:

     MEMORY:

     INT. A SMALLER APARTMENT, KITCHEN - A NIGHT REMEMBERED

     A younger Annie stands in a bathrobe, noticeably pregnant, 
     cooking at a stove -- reading instructions from a propped up 
     cookbook. FRANK SINATRA IS BLASTING as she sings along, in 
     full voice, without inhibitions;

                      ANNIE
          "SHE'S LOVES THE THEATRE BUT NEVER COMES 
          LATE... SHE NEVER BOTHERS WITH PEOPLE SHE 
          HATES... THAT'S WHY THE LADY IS A TRAMP!..."

     A younger Robert, wearing a suit, arrives home from work. Seeing 
     her, he smiles affectionately. He puts down his briefcase and 
     bursts into his own playful Sinatra impersonation:

                      ROBERT
          "She loves the free..."

     Startled, Annie turns around and smiles:

                      ROBERT
               (sexily undoing his tie)
          "... FRESH, WIND IN HER HAIR... LIFE 
          WITHOUT CARE... SHE'S BROKE... BUT 
          IT'S 'OK'...

                      ANNIE
               (a la fan)
          Sing it to me, Frankie!

                      ROBERT
               (a la Sinatra cool)
          How's my pregnant chick!

     She moves to him and they embrace... He wraps his arms around 
     her. They kiss. Annie laughs.

                      ANNIE
          You can hardly get your arms around me. 
          How depressing. You're so early.

                      ROBERT
          I had to excuse myself from a meeting. 
          It's ridiculous. I kept thinking about 
          the baby... you... and, I swear, I was 
          going to start bawling right into my 
          briefs.

                      ANNIE
               (loving it)
          Aw... that's so sweet.

                      ROBERT
          I love you.

                      ANNIE
          Do you? Do you really?

     They turn to each other and kiss.

     END OF MEMORY.

     INT. HOSPITAL CAFETERIA - PRE-DAWN

     Annie and Robert sit silently at the table in an empty hospital 
     cafeteria, a lifetime later.

     INT. GRACE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - DAYBREAK

     The room's lights are dimmed. Dawn is being to break through.

     Grace, slowly, opens her eyes coming out of sedation. She 
     takes a moment to figure out where she is... to remember.

     She uses her hands to hoist herself up, but she's unsteady 
     and knocks into her bedside table -- knocking the Good Luck 
     Charm from India off the table. It rolls under the bed, with 
     a water tumbler. Grace never sees the Charm.

     Grace looks where her leg once was. She feels the blanket, 
     the empty space where her leg once was... just like her mother 
     did (did her father couldn't). Instead of self-pity, she's 
     oddly fascinated.

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. GRACE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - LATER THAT DAY

     Daylight pours in. Robert and Annie enter. Robert, loaded 
     with gifts, immediately crosses to Grace, on the side of her 
     good leg. Annie takes her position beside the lost leg. 
     Robert kisses his daughter;

                      ROBERT
          Hi, sweetheart...

     Annie's hand finds Grace's hand, and holds one of her fingers 
     tightly. Grace responds by wrapping her hand around her 
     mother's. They exchange a look of respect and gratitude.

                      GRACE
          Have you heard from Judith's parents?

                      ROBERT
          No, not yet.

                      GRACE
          How's Pilgrim doing?

                      ANNIE
          Liz is taking care of him.
               (to change the subject)
          The doctor said the sooner you start 
          therapy the better the chances are you 
          can --

                      GRACE
          I can't even get out of bed yet! You're 
          already putting me in therapy!!

     Annie, slightly hurt, drops it as Robert takes over:

                      ROBERT
          The doctor said whenever you're ready. 
          Take your time. You tell us... But he 
          thinks it'll only be a few months, then --

     As Robert continues talking, Annie drifts to the Nurse. 
     Needing to manage something, she asks:

                      ANNIE
          Did you get her fresh towels?

     SOME TIME LATER:

     EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

     A limousine drives up as the Doorman gets the car door. The 
     weather is slightly warmer. People's clothing looks as if 
     spring is coming nearer.

     Annie exits first, carrying a jacket for Grace. She is 
     followed by Robert, who immediately turns to help Grace. We 
     hear her O.S.

                      GRACE (O.S.)
          Dad! I can do it, OK?!

                      ROBERT
          OK, OK.

     Annie shoots him a disapproving look.

     We see Grace's good leg exit first... then two crutches, 
     followed by... a PROSTHETIC LEG. Grace scoots into view, and 
     takes a breath.

                      GRACE
          You all go ahead. I'll be up by 
          Christmas.

     INT. CENTRAL PARK WEST APARTMENT - NIGHT

     The three sit at a dinner table, eating dinner. Grace picks 
     at her food. Robert can't help staring at her. Annie eats, 
     watching them both.

                      ROBERT
          Do you want something else, honey? 
          We order something else?

                      GRACE
            No, I'm just not that hungry.

                      ANNIE
          Why don't you go lie down?

                      GRACE
          I don't want to lie down. I've been 
          lying down enough.

                      ROBERT
          You want to watch some television?

                      GRACE
               (edgy)
          Maybe... look -- just...

     Robert and Annie wait. She doesn't continue. She rises, 
     reaching for her crutches. Robert moves to help.

                      GRACE
          I got it! I got it!

     She exits into her room. Annie looks at him disapprovingly.

     INT. ANNIE AND ROBERT'S BATHROOM/BEDROOM - NIGHT

     Annie and Robert stand before their separate sinks, talking 
     to each other through their separate mirrors, as they wash up 
     for bed.

                      ANNIE
          You've got to stop doing that?

                      ROBERT
          Doing what?

                      ANNIE
          Helping all the time! Running to her 
          every time she trips or falls... 
          Anticipating her all the time.

     Robert shuts off his sink and dries his face, without a word. 
     He exits into the bedroom, and gets into bed. For a beat, he 
     stares up at the ceiling -- then says quite plainly.

                      ROBERT
          You know, Annie, this didn't just happen 
          to you.

     Annie is applying moisturizer when she hears this. As it 
     sinks in, she doesn't like it.

     INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

     Grace stands by her door and can hear her parents muffled, 
     tense voices. Annie is angry at his complacency. Robert just 
     wants what's best for Grace. She closes the door. Silence. 
     She puts her crutches against the wall and tries to walk 
     towards her bureau without them. It is a struggle, but she 
     does... almost falling, but grabbing the bureau just in time. 
     The 8X10 of her and Pilgrim, falls face down. She props it up 
     and looks at it -- focusing on her horse, then on Judith. 
     Suddenly, she lashes out, knocking the photograph onto the 
     floor...

                      ROBERT (O.S.)
          Honey, you all right? Did something 
          fall?

                      GRACE
               (angrily shouts)
          NO!

     EXT. GRACE'S PRIVATE SCHOOL - MORNING

     Annie pulls up in a Range Rover and stops. Grace moves for 
     the door. Annie asks respectfully;

                      ANNIE
          Do you want any help?

     Grace doesn't even bother to answer. She manages to get onto 
     the pavements, then turns for her bag...

     Annie notices other kids looking at Grace from behind, as they 
     enter the school.

                      ANNIE
          Dad'll pick you up today, all right?

                      GRACE
          Okay.

     Grace looks up to her mother. What is unspoken between them 
     is the understanding that today will be difficult and there's 
     nothing either one can do about it.

                      ANNIE
          You'll be fine.

     Grace nods and turns to the school. Annie watches her go.

     INT. GRACE'S SCHOOL - MORNING

     Grace makes her way through the hall. It is the first time 
     she has had to maneuver through a crowd. Some of the younger 
     children are especially unconscious. Grace sweats her way 
     through, trying to maintain her balance and her sanity.

     As Grace slowly moves along, whatever small faith she had 
     that she could get through this day, begins to diminish.

     INT. ANNIE'S OFFICE - DAY

     Annie moves about the office, hands in pocket, in front of 
     her wall of windows. LUCY and her staff sitting around the 
     office. Annie is speaking to a YOUNG WOMAN staff member;

                      ANNIE
          I don't care what he told you! The 
          man's a liar! The man's an actor, for 
          Christ's sake. They're all liars! 
          They'll say anything to get a cover...

     The Young Woman looks insulted. AN ASSISTANT comes in to give 
     Annie a note;

     EXT. GRACE'S SCHOOL - DAY

     Annie is crossing an empty school yard. Grace is sitting on 
     the ground, her back against a wall, her "legs" in front of 
     her. She has been crying. She looks up to her mother.

                      GRACE
          It's too hard.

     Annie kneels before her sympathetically brushing her hair away:

                      ANNIE
          Oh, honey... What happened?

                      GRACE
          Doesn't matter. I... I don't want to 
          come back, that's all.

                      ANNIE
               (softly)
          Oh. Well, what are you going to do? You 
          have to go to school, honey. I mean, what --

                      GRACE
               (snaps)
          I'm not coming back! That's it! I want to 
          go home!

                      ANNIE
          Grace, listen to me. Your body is just 
          healing. You have to give the rest of you 
          time as well...

                      GRACE
          Is that your version of a pep talk?

                      ANNIE
          You are not staying home all day feeling 
          sorry for yourself. You're going to get 
          up and you're going to figure this out.

                      GRACE
               (snotty)
          Fine!

                      ANNIE
          It's still early. What's your next class?

     With secret delight, Grace viciously utters the word:

                      GRACE
          Gym!

     INT. ANNIE AND ROBERT'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

     Annie is at her desk studying Grace's book on Horse Whisperers. 
     Robert is on his bed with briefs laid out before him.

     INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM - SAME NIGHT

     The door is closed. A SONG blares on her stereo. Grace is in 
     her bed watching a video of her and Pilgrim... riding at a 
     horse show. There's a shot of Annie standing proudly, 
     watching her ride. Another shot of her and Judith, both of 
     them on their horses, waving to camera.

     INT. BEDROOM - SAME NIGHT

     Grace enters.

                      GRACE
          Dad?

     Both Robert and Annie look up.

                      ROBERT
          What, sweetheart?

                      GRACE
               (beat)
          I want to see Pilgrim.

     Robert and Annie exchange an anxious look.

     EXT. DYER HORSE FARM, CONNECTICUT - DAY

     It's raining. The MacLean car is parked by the barn. They 
     are walking towards the stables under their umbrellas as Liz 
     runs to greet them.

                      LIZ
          Hello...
               (to Grace)
          It's so good to see you. How ya 
          doing?

                      ROBERT
          She's doing just grea. Aren't you 
          kiddo?

                      GRACE
          I'm fine.

                      LIZ
          Well, come on. He's out back now...
               (leads them)
          Mind how you go. It's pretty muddy back 
          there.

                      GRACE
          Why is he in the back? Why isn't he in 
          the barn with the other horses?

     Liz stops, causing everyone to stop. She turns to face Grace, 
     realizing she doesn't know. She looks at Robert and Annie, 
     accusingly. She tries to explain:

                      LIZ
          Well, Grace, you see... Pilgrim just... 
          isn't the same horse he used to be.
               (to the parents)
          As a matter of fact, maybe now's not 
          the best time to --

                      GRACE
          I really want to see him.

     Liz looks at Annie. Annie nods. Liz leads them on.

     They reach a row of empty old stalls. They cross to one of 
     the stalls -- its doors are closed. Liz draws back the bolt 
     on top half of the door.

     There is an immediate explosion of sound inside the stall, 
     the sound of fear, startling them. Then it's still. Liz 
     slowly opens the door. Grace, with the aide of her cane, 
     walks to the stall. She hesitates, then looks in. It takes a 
     moment for her eyes to grow accustomed to the dark. She sees 
     Pilgrim with his head down in the shadows...

                      GRACE
          Hello, beautiful boy...

     He lifts his head at the sound of her voice. Grace, and the 
     audience, see him for the first time -- His mad eyes, his 
     terrible disfigurement...

     Grace cries out, stepping backwards, nearly stumbling in the 
     mud... What is left of her horse are gone. Annie realizes 
     what's happened and, together with Robert, rush to her... They 
     too see the monster Pilgrim has become and are horrified. 
     Grace angrily pushes away from them and "runs" off. Robert 
     goes after her.

     Annie is standing in the rain with Liz -- her eyes unable to 
     move away from the sight of Pilgrim.

                      LIZ (O.S.)
          You should have told her, Annie. I 
          tried to explain to you how bad it was... 
          I guess you had to see it. But, there's 
          nothing to be done. This animal's beyond 
          help. Annie, can I have your permission 
          now to put him down?

     Annie stands in the rain, hands in pocket, fixed on Pilgrim 
     and more determined than ever;

                      ANNIE
          No.

     EXT. CENTRAL PARK WEST APARTMENT - NIGHT

     Alone in her study, Annie sits before her computer searching 
     the Internet for information on HORSES -- Veterinarian 
     Journals, Therapies, Accidents, Eistories... We sense she's 
     been at it a while...

     She locates an ITEM TITLE -- HORSE WHISPERERS. Interested, she 
     brings it up on the screen.

     INT. NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY - NIGHT

     Annie sits in the huge reading room, books spread out before 
     her, under a green reading lamp. Her voice tells us what she's 
     reading:

                      ANNIE (V.O.)
          "It was in America that horses first 
          roamed..."

     In the books, we see pictures, lithographs, paintings and 
     drawings...

                      ANNIE (V.O.)
          "A million years before the birth of 
          man, they grazed the vast empty plains of 
          grass and crossed to other continents 
          over bridges of rocks... They first knew 
          man as the hunted knows the hunter, for 
          long before man saw horses as a means to 
          killing other beasts, man killed them for 
          meat..."

     ANNIE'S V.O. CONTINUES OVER;

     INT. PILGRIM'S STALL - NIGHT

                      ANNIE (V.O.)
          "...The alliance with man would forever 
          be fragile -- for the fear he'd struck 
          into their hearts was too deep to be 
          dislodged... Since that Neolithic moment 
          when a horse was first haltered, there 
          were those among men who understood 
          this..."

     INT. GRACE'S ROOM - NIGHT

     Grace sits alone in her darkened room, staring out the window 
     but not looking at anything. There's a discomforting distance 
     in her expression.

                      ANNIE (V.O.)
          "... They could see into the creature's 
          soul and soothe the wounds they found 
          there..."

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. A FAIRGROUNDS PARKING LOT, CALIFORNIA - DAY

     A hot, dusty fairgrounds horse arena. The worn wooden bleachers, 
     crowded. Lines of cars and pick-up trucks.

                      ANNIE (V.O.)
          "...For secrets uttered softly into 
          troubled ears, these men were known as 
          The Whisperers..."

     One particular pick-up truck has its back door opened. A 
     MAN'S LEG is sticking out, putting on a pair of boots.

     A moment later the Man gets out of the car. Holding a cowboy 
     hat, he has a certain quality, a self-respect, that men who 
     know themselves seem to have. TOM BOOKER.

     A weathered redheaded woman named RONA -- late forties, strong, 
     wiry horsewoman's build -- is walking towards him.

                      RONA
          Hey, darlin'.

                      TOM
          Hey, Rona. Sorry I'm late.

                      RONA
          I wouldn't know what to do if you were 
          on time.

     They walk together towards the fairgrounds.

                      TOM
          You're looking fit.

                      RONA
          Fit? You want to check my teeth.
               (Tom laughs)
          Good crowd today. I think you'll have 
          some fun. You going to stay for dinner?

                      TOM
          If it's not too much trouble, I thought 
          I might.

                      RONA
               (playful)
          Kind of trouble I'm in the mood for.

                      TOM
          Oh-oh... Maybe I better get back in the 
          truck.

     Rona lets out a hearty laugh as they enter the horse arena.

     EXT. HORSE ARENA, CALIFORNIA - DAY

     Inside the corral, a small black thoroughbred is being worked 
     by Tom. As he rides and narrates into a radio microphone to 
     the crowd, we sense this is a man of good humor and great 
     skill --  guileless, sensible, of the earth.

                      TOM
          ... It's always kind of interesting to 
          hear the horse's side of the story...

     The crowd laughs warmly. He directs his comments to a WOMAN 
     wearing an expensive Ralph Lauren western outfit, standing 
     outside the corral...

                      TOM
          Now if he was cranky or lazy, like you 
          say he is, we'd be seeing his tail 
          twitching there and his ears back, 
          maybe. But this isn't a cranky horse, 
          it's a scared horse. You see how braced 
          he is up around the neck back there. 
          He just doesn't know which way to turn...

     The Woman nods. Tom turns the horse on a dime so that he 
     always stays facing the circling thoroughbred...

                      TOM
          You see how he keeps pointing his 
          hindquarters in at me? Well, I'd guess 
          the reason he seems reluctant to move 
          out is because when he does, he gets in 
          trouble for it.

                      THE WOMAN
          He's not good at transitions, you know? 
          When I want him to move from a trot to a 
          lope, say...

                      TOM
               (smiles)
          Well, I'm sure that's what you think but 
          that's not what I'm seeing. You may think 
          you're asking for a lope, but your body 
          may be saying something else altogether. 
          You might be putting too many conditions 
          on him. For instance, you might be saying 
          "GO, but, hey, don't go too fast." He can 
          tell that from the way you feel. Your 
          body can't lie. You ever give him a kick 
          to make him move out?

                      THE WOMAN
          He won't go unless I do.

                      TOM
          And then he goes and you feel like he's 
          going too fast, so you yank him back?
               (she nods)
          And next thing you know, he's bucking.
               (she nods again)
          Well, if someone told you to go, stop, 
          go, stop -- you'd buck too.

     The people laugh. The Woman smiles self-consciously.

                      TOM
          It's a dance, see... Somebody has to lead 
          and somebody has to follow.

     Tom gracefully moves his horse around the ring, "dancing". He 
     then takes up a long coiled rope and throws it so that the 
     coils slap against the black horse's flank, making it burst 
     into a lope. And again... Making the animal go from a trot to 
     a lope, letting it slow, then up to a lope again.

                      TOM
          I want him to get so he can leave real 
          soft. He's getting the idea now. He's 
          not all braced up and tense like he was 
          at the start. He's finding out it's okay.

     He throws the rope again and this time the transition to the 
     lope is a smooth one.

                      TOM
          You see that? He's getting better 
          already. Pretty soon, if you work at 
          it, you'll be able to make all these 
          transitions easy on a loose rein.
               (sotto voce, wry)
          Yeah, and pigs'll fly.
               (to Woman)
          He's going to be okay -- so long as you 
          don't go yanking on him.

     She nods, but he can see she's upset, feeling foolish. He 
     walks the horse over to her, turns off the microphone and 
     speaks sympathetically:

                      TOM
          Look, the truth is it's all about self-
          preservation. These animals.
               (with great affection)
          ... well, they just have such big hearts, 
          you know? There's nothing they want more 
          than to do what you want them to do. But 
          when the messages get all confused, the 
          only thing they know to do is try and 
          save themselves... Now, why don't you go 
          saddle up and see what happens.

     Feeling better, and not a little attracted to his heartfelt 
     man's man, the Woman smiles and reaches for his hand to climb 
     over the rail. Her horse lets her come right up to him and 
     stroke his neck. Tom comments;

                      TOM
          They won't ever hold a thing against 
          you. They're the most forgiving 
          creatures God ever made.

     Turning on his mike and turning back to the crowd, he says:

                      TOM
          Okay, who's next?

     A Young Boy leads a mule into the ring. Tom smiles:

                      TOM
          Now God has another idea entirely with 
          the mule.

     EXT. THE FAIRGROUNDS - LATER THAT DAY

     Tom has finished his "show." People are shaking his hand, 
     thanking him, as he walks away from the corral, towards a 
     trailer.

     The Woman in the Ralph Lauren approaches:

                      WOMAN
          Excuse me.

     He faces the Woman:

                      WOMAN
          Hi. I'm Dale. I just wanted to -- I can't 
          get over the way he felt under me after 
          you'd finish with him. Everything had 
          just, I don't know, freed up or something.

     The Woman is flirting. Tom shrugs, uncomfortably;

                      TOM
          Well, that'll happen.

                      WOMAN
          Where did you learn all this stuff?

                      TOM
          What stuff is that?

                      WOMAN
          About horses? I'd love to learn more 
          about it myself. Do you offer any 
          private lessons for riders?

                      TOM
                (getting the message)
          Well... Dale... you know, a lot of this 
          stuff... it just... nuts and bolts.

                      WOMAN
          What do you mean?

                      TOM
          Well, if the rider's nuts, the horse 
          bolts.
               (smiles)
          That's the whole lesson right there. 
          You have a good day now... Just... keep 
          on freeing yourself up.

     He leaves her, entering the trailer.

     INT. RONA'S TRAILER - NIGHT

     A small, well-used trailer. Tom and Rona are finishing dinner 
     like comfortable old friends. Rona rises, taking the plates 
     into the kitchen and starts rinsing them:

                      RONA
          Oh I clear forget. You had a call from 
          some woman in New York. She sounded 
          pretty wound up.

                      TOM
          I don't any woman in New York. But from 
          what I hear, most of them are wound up.

                      RONA
          The number's by the phone.

     He nods but doesn't move. He just looks at Rona and smiles. 
     She's a good woman. But Tom hopes she doesn't want anymore 
     than what they have together. Rona notices him looking and 
     smiles:

                      RONA
          What are you looking at, young man?

                      TOM
          How long were you married?

                      RONA
          Long enough.

                      TOM
          You ever miss it?

                      RONA
          Does a horse miss a saddle?

                      TOM
          Sometimes.

     She chuckles, shuts the water off and crosses back to him, 
     sitting beside him.

                      RONA
          Well as a matter of fact, I don't... most 
          of the time.

     She starts unbuttoning his shirt.

                      TOM
          You know, Rona, we weren't all that good 
          together even when we were good together.

                      RONA
          Honey... I was always good.

     Tom smiles as Rona leans in. They kiss.

     INT. ANNIE'S OFFICE, N.Y.C. - MORNING

     Annie is looking over a magazine cover with Lucy and her staffers. 
     She is unhappy.

                      ANNIE
          You know it's perfectly shot, it's 
          perfectly cropped, it's perfectly laid 
          out and I'm so bloody bored, I'd rather 
          buy a Motor Racing magazine -- Start 
          over.

     Some general whines and groans as her assistant hands her a 
     note.

                      ANNIE
          Uh, would you all excuse me a moment?

     She waits for them to leave as she sits before the phone. One 
     of her lines is lit:

     EXT. A ROADSIDE SERVICE STATION SOMEWHERE IN UTAH - DAY

     An endless sky. An empty ribbon of two-lane highway in Utah. 
     A small roadside station. Tom's pick-up truck, his horse 
     trailer hitched to it, getting gas.

     Tom is on the pay phone. We hear Annie's voice:

                      ANNIE (O.S.)
          This is Annie MacLean.

                      TOM
          Yeah. Hello. This is Tom Booker. I got a 
          message you called.

     INTERCUT ANNIE in her office:

                      ANNIE
               (efficient, expeditiously)
          Oh! Yes. Thank you for calling back. Uh, 
          all right, let me try to explain my 
          situation as briefly as possible... You 
          see, my daughter had an accident with 
          her horse... They were both injured and 
          she, my daughter, she hasn't been able 
          to... fully... uh... It was an extremely 
          traumatic experience... and uh...

     Tom, sensing her turmoil, listening compassionately.

                      ANNIE
          I went on the Internet and found this 
          article about you... It says you're a Horse 
          Whisperer, that you... you help people 
          with horse problems. And you have quite a 
          success rate when it comes to traumatized --

                      TOM
          Well, see, truth is, ma'am, I help horses 
          with people's problems.

                      ANNIE
          Well, you know, however you want to put 
          it -- I got your information from the 
          publisher of the article. I called 
          Montana and your sister-in-law, I think, 
          gave me this number.
               (trying to be charming)
          I'm been hot on your trail you could say 
          because I was hoping you'd consider 
          coming to New York and taking a look at 
          my daughter's horse and possibly --

                      TOM
          Ma'am, I'm very sorry about your problems 
          and I appreciate what your daughter must 
          be going through, but I'm afraid you've 
          misunderstood whatever it is you read. I 
          don't do that sort of thing.

                      ANNIE
          Well, if you could just come for the day. 
          New York's only a few hours by plane, 
          I'd have you home by dinner...

                      TOM
          Look, even if it was nearer, that's just 
          not what I do. I give clinics. And I'm 
          not even doing them for a while. I'm 
          heading back to Montana right now. I got 
          a ranch to take care of...

                      ANNIE
               (interrupts, abruptly)
          I'll pay you for your fare. I'll send you 
          to Montana first class.

                      TOM
               (getting impatient)
          Ma'am, first class to Montana is a waste 
          of good money. Now, am I being too polite 
          here or when I say NO in Utah, does that 
          mean YES in New York City?

     Annie is taken aback. Tom feels badly.

                      TOM
          I, I don't mean to sound insensitive. I 
          understand your situation. But there's 
          nothing I can do. You just called the 
          wrong person, that's all. I hear there 
          are a bunch of therapists in New York. 
          Maybe you should call one of them.

                      ANNIE
          Mr. Booker, if I could just ex --

                      TOM
          I am very sorry, ma'am. Goodbye now.

     He hangs up before Annie can continue.

     INT. GRACE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

     Annie reaches for Grace's bedroom door, then pauses. She 
     realizes she should knock. She does and whispers:

                      ANNIE
          Grace?
               (knocks again)
          Grace, it's mom.

     Annie slowly opens the door. She finds Grace's bed empty. She 
     looks over to the window to find Grace sitting in a chair, in 
     the dark, looking out the window.

                      ANNIE
          Grace. What are you doing?

     Not looking up, Grace speaks in a hollow voice.

                      GRACE
          I can't find that charm Daddy gave me 
          from India.

                      ANNIE
          I brought it to you in the hospital.

                      GRACE
          No, you didn't.

                      ANNIE
          Grace, I put it on the table near your --

                      GRACE
               (apathetic)
          Doesn't matter.

     Beat.

                      ANNIE
          Have you decided about Pilgrim?

                      GRACE
          What about him?

                      ANNIE
          Well... how you feel all right about 
          telling Liz to put him down...

                      GRACE
          I think we should. It's not fair to let 
          him suffer. He's not much use anymore. 
          He'd hate living like that.

                      ANNIE
          I think that's... very compassionate 
          and... mature way of looking at it.

                      GRACE
          Mom?

                      ANNIE
          Yeah?

                      GRACE
          Maybe they should put me down too.

                      ANNIE
          What?

                      GRACE
          I mean, I'm not much use anymore. Why 
          can't they be compassionate to me?

     What frightens Annie most is the calm and apathy in Grace's 
     voice. She's surrendering... Annie, for the first time in a 
     long time, feels she's losing control.

     INT. CENTRAL PARK WEST APARTMENT - NIGHT

     Annie sits alone at the kitchen table, nursing a glass of 
     wine.

     Robert enters and sits opposite her, wearing a tuxedo -- his 
     tie and collar undone.

                      ANNIE
          How was the dinner?

                      ROBERT
                  (wry)
          All our "favorite" people were there 
          saying all their "favorite" things about 
          their "favorite" subjects. I thought to 
          myself, we've been friends with these 
          people almost twenty years and nobody 
          knows anybody. We're so afraid we won't 
          like each other and have nobody go to 
          dinners with.

                      ANNIE
          Why did you go?

                      ROBERT
               (surprised)
          They're still our friends, Annie. It's 
          nothing serious. You kid about them all 
          the time... And I could tell Paul really 
          appreciated me being there.

     He drinks Annie's wine as she looks at him.

                      ROBERT
          Did you get a hold of that horse guy?

                      ANNIE
          Yeah.

                      ROBERT
          What did he say?

                      ANNIE
          No.

     Robert nods. Accepting. Silence. Annie sips her wine. Then:

                      ROBERT
          I was thinking... Maybe we should think 
          about the three of us going someplace 
          warm... Remember that house we rented in 
          Bermuda... The pink one with the --

     His arm accidentally spills the wine.

                      ROBERT
          Shit.

     As he bends down to wipe it up with a napkin, Annie watches 
     Robert clean the spill. Something about his movements, his 
     posture -- a sense of weakness, of surrendering, of not having 
     the inclination to fight, of just accepting and smoothing 
     over the rough sports -- strikes her hard. Annie realizes the 
     love she feels for Robert isn't fading. It's gone.

     He finishes cleaning and sits.

                      ROBERT
          What was I saying?

                      ANNIE
          About us going someplace warm... 
          Someplace Grace'll have to wear shorts 
          or bathing suits or summer dresses...

     Robert looks at her and realizes it's a bad idea. He nods, 
     again, getting the message. Silence. In that silence, Annie 
     looks at him... and makes a decision:

                      ANNIE
          Robert, I want to take Pilgrim out to Mr. 
          Booker. Drive him out to Montana... With 
          Grace.

     Robert is confused... and a little worried.

                      ROBERT
          I don't understand. You just said he 
          said no.

                      ANNIE
          He did, but... I think I can change his 
          mind.

                      ROBERT
          That's the craziest thing I ever heard. 
          Absolutely not.

                      ANNIE
          Robert, Grace isn't adjusting to school. 
          And she can't sit in this apartment all 
          day... I think it would be good for her.

                        ROBERT
               (at a loss)
          NO! What are you -- you're serious about 
          this?

                      ANNIE
          I've called Liz. They can set me up with 
          a trailer for Pilgrim. I thought we'd 
          stay at motels along the way...

                      ROBERT
               (overlapping)
          You've already made arrangements!?

                      ANNIE
          No. I was just researching. Calm down.

                      ROBERT
          I come home and you tell me we're going 
          to drive a psychotic horse to Montana! I 
          can't just pick up and leave...

                      ANNIE
          I'm not asking you to. I'll do it.

                      ROBERT
          You want to do this by yourself? How? 
          You can't take care of Pilgrim all the --

                       ANNIE
          He'll be sedated. I know horses, Robert. 
          I'm the one who taught Grace how to ride.

                      ROBERT
               (overlapping)
          What... Bo-... What about the magazine?

                      ANNIE
          I'm in charge. I went back very soon 
          after the accident. They didn't expect me 
          for a couple of months. I'll just take 
          that time now... I can still oversee 
          things from Montana... Take my fax... 
          My computer...

     Beat. Robert fears this is about the marriage. Yet --

                      ROBERT
          No. It's, uh... No, I really don't think 
          it's a good idea

                      ANNIE
          Why?!

                      ROBERT
               (searching)
          Her psychiatrist... said... she needs 
          security now... stability...

                      ANNIE
          I can't say he's been all that effective 
          with her.

                      ROBERT
          Are you a psychiatrist? He said it takes 
          time.

                      ANNIE
          I don't care what he says! We have to do 
          something, Robert! I can't sit here and 
          trust everything's going to work out just 
          by pretending it will.

                      ROBERT
          I'm not pretending anything!

     Beat. Robert just stares at her. He looks concerned... almost 
     worried. Annie gets uncomfortable.

                      ANNIE
          What?

     It is very difficult for Robert to say;

                      ROBERT
          I thought... well, ever since the 
          accident, I just thought we...

     He stops. Annie knows where he headed and prays to God he 
     doesn't continue. He doesn't. A thick silence hangs between 
     them.

                      ROBERT
          I really wish I could understand why 
          you think this is so necessary.

                      ANNIE
               (frustrated)
          Robert, we're losing her. We're losing 
          her.
               (he listens)
          I don't care what the doctors say. The 
          truth is, they don't know anymore than 
          we do -- less, when it comes to Grace... 
          This may not sound sensible or... logical, 
          but nobody's suggesting anything better. 
          I can't explain it, Robert. I just have 
          this feeling... this annoying... bloody 
          feeling that if... if, somehow, Pilgrim 
          can be made all right... then so can Grace. 
          I just know it!

     Robert can feel the strength of her will. He can find no way 
     around it.

                      ROBERT
          What if she doesn't want to go?

                      ANNIE
          She will if you think she should.

                      ROBERT
          And you think it's best if I don't come.

                      ANNIE
               (hesitates)
          No, that's not what I said. I'm not a 
          dictator. If you feel you should come, 
          then come. Just do whatever you think 
          is right.

     At some moment, they realize Grace is standing at the entrance 
     to the kitchen. They are surprised.

                      GRACE
          I'm not going! I don't care what she 
          says!

     Annie lowers her head. Robert stares at Grace as she walks to 
     him.

                      GRACE
          Daddy?... I don't want to go.

     Grace stands next to Robert. He holds her hands. Annie looks 
     at him, without sympathy. Robert looks back. In his face is 
     the total acceptance of what must be. As well as the sadness 
     of it's inevitability. He looks back at his daughter, whose 
     eyes have never left him.

     EXT. JOAN DYER STABLE - DAY

     Pilgrim is being loaded into the trailer by four strong stable 
     men, violently kicking and pulling all the way.

     Annie watches with anxiety -- an almost giddy Liz by her side.

                      ANNIE
          Maybe we should give him another 
          sedative.

                      LIZ
          Problem is, there aren't many 
          volunteers. He's already had enough 
          to sink a battleship. You have a 
          pin, just in case?

                      ANNIE
          Of course not.

                      LIZ
          Probably best. You may want to shoot 
          yourself half way to Ohio.

     In the back seat of ANNIE'S SUBURBAN sits Grace -- her back to 
     the action. Hearing Pilgrim's struggle. Putting her walkman 
     on her ears and raising the volume... We hear --

     GRACE'S MUSIC, ON THE SOUNDTRACK, bringing us to:

     EXT. A HIGHWAY, IN PENNSYLVANIA - DAY

     Annie's Suburban drives along Route 80, pulling the horse 
     trailer behind.

     INT. SUBURBAN - DAY

     Grace, in the back seat, wearing her headphones, listening to 
     her music (maybe LIZ PHAIR OR HOLLY COLE). Detached. Non-
     committal. As trucks pass by, their time slapping the pavement, 
     she reacts and turns to the other window.

     Annie, in sunglasses, shifts her attention between the road 
     and her rear-view mirror -- checking on Grace.

     EXT. HIGHWAY IN - EARLY MORNING

     The Suburban drives as the sun begins to set.

     EXT. MOTEL IN OHIO - NIGHT

     The Suburban and Horse Trailer are parked in the lot.

     INT. MOTEL ROOM, OHIO - NIGHT

     A small furnished motel room with two twin beds.

     Grace sits up in bed watching TV, with no expression. A sitcom 
     with canned laughter serves as a hypnotic drug.

     Annie enters from the bathroom, after showering, drying her 
     hair. Grace doesn't bother to look up.

                      ANNIE
          You want to take your bath?
               (Grace shakes her head)
          We have to get up early tomorrow. You 
          may not have enough time to --

                      GRACE
          Fine -- I'll take my bath.

     She begins moving off the bed.

                      ANNIE
          No, I don't mean you have to. It's just 
          that we may not have enough --

                      GRACE
          -- enough time tomorrow. I know.

                      ANNIE
          Look, if you want to take it in the 
          morning, that's fine.

                      GRACE
               (interrupts on "fine")
          I don't care.

     Annie realizes she may have pushed too hard, but she also 
     realizes there's no talking to Grace now. So, she achieves 
     her goal --

                      JANNIE
          Take it now.

     Grace hobbles off the bed, enters the bathroom and shuts the 
     door.

     INT. MOTEL ROOM IN OHIO - NIGHT

     The lights are off. Annie lays in bed, wide awake. It is the 
     middle of the night.

     Grace, asleep in the other bed, begins whimpering. She's 
     having a bad dream. Annie rises -- considering whether or not 
     to intercede... Finally, Grace begins to cry out... softly at 
     first, but with increasing intensity until she awakens in 
     fear... Annie appears right by her side.

                      ANNIE
          What, sweetheart? What?

     Shaken, Grace cannot fight how much she needs her mother at 
     that moment. She wraps her arms around her, tightly, and tries 
     to catch her breath.

                      ANNIE
          It's sleeping in a strange bed, 
          that's all. Happens sometimes. It's 
          Ok. It's OK.

     EXT. ANOTHER ROAD, MID-WEST - DAY

     The Suburban continues its journey.

     Once again -- Annie, in the front, and Grace, in the rear, 
     drive without a word between them.

     INT. SUBURBAN - DAY

     Grace and Annie occupy their same positions. Annie is on the 
     car phone with her office.

                      ANNIE
          Okay, listen -- let's do this. When 
          I get to the next motel, I'll see if 
          they have a fax. If not, I'll call 
          you tomorrow to --

     Annie continues O.S. when we hear a shifting, a rocking in 
     the trailer behind them. As if Pilgrim made a sudden move. 
     Grace quickly turns her head. Annie looks in the rear view at 
     Grace.

                      ANNIE
          Uh Lucy, look, I have to go. OK... 
          Later.

     Annie hangs up and smiles at Grace through the mirror. Grace 
     reaches for her walkman and headphones. Annie offers;

                      ANNIE
          Grace! GRACE!

     Grace lowers one side of her headphones;

                      ANNIE
          Would you like to put your music on 
          up here?

     Grace shrugs. Annie shrugs it off as well. Grace replaces the 
     headphone. Annie turns on the radio -- nothing but country or 
     gospel or religious talk shows... She shuts it off. Frustrated, 
     Annie looks up ahead and sees:

     A TRUCK STOP DINER

     Annie yells to be heard through the headphones;

                      ANNIE
          IT'S ALMOST LUNCHTIME. ARE YOU 
          HUNGRY!?

                      GRACE
                        (shrugs)
          Whatever you want.

                      ANNIE
          Fine!

                      GRACE
          Fine.

     Annoyed, Annie pulls onto the gravel and stops, talking to 
     herself --

                      ANNIE
          Fine!

     She exits the car, banging the door. As she walks acrund the 
     car to help Grace, she talks to herself in a sarcastic whisper:

                      ANNIE
          "Whatever you want!" Well, this is what 
          I want. I want to eat lunch and I want 
          to smoke a cigarette and I want to keep 
          talking to myself for the next two 
          thousand fucking miles..."!

     She opens Grace's door. Grace senses her mother's anger.

     INT. TRUCK STOP DINER - DAY

     Annie and Grace enter. They look around:

     Formica floors, truckers in caps and beer bellies stuffed 
     into booths or at the counter. There is not a single space 
     available.

     Annie and Grace stand near the entrance. Another Trucker 
     enters and they step aside, huddled together in this foreign 
     land.

     INT. MOTEL IN IOWA - NIGHT

     Grace and Annie enter the room to find A DOUBLE BED instead 
     of two twins. Neither comments.

     Annie exits O.S., carrying the bags inside, as she says:

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

                      ANNIE
          You should call your dad before it 
          gets too late.

                      GRACE
          I already did.
               (Annie's surprised)
          This morning. When you went running.

                      ANNIE
          Oh. You didn't tell me.

                      GRACE
          I didn't know I had to.

                      ANNIE
               (stares angrily, speaks 
                softly)
          You don't.

     Silence. Annie exits past her to the car.

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

     LATER

     Grace is asleep in her twin bed. Once again, Annie is wide 
     awake. The clock reads: 4:55 AM. But Annie can not sleep. 
     Camera moves away from Annie, past her side of the bed, to 
     the other side of the room.

     WE SEE THE SHADOW OF A WOMAN coming towards the bed. She 
     comes in camera angle and we follow to her back to the bed, 
     which has now transformed into --

     A BED FROM THE PAST, IN WHICH A TEN-YEAR-OLD ANNIE IS 
     SLEEPING WITH HER YOUNGER BROTHER GEORGE.

     WE ARE IN MEMORY.

     The Woman gently shakes little Annie awaken.

                      WOMAN
          Annie... Annie, sweetheart... wake 
          up.

     The little girl, with sleep in her eyes, turns and sees her.

                      WOMAN
          Bad news I'm afraid. Your Daddy's 
          gone.

     END OF MEMORY.

     Annie, in present time next to Grace, thinks of this as she 
     stays awake. Putting her jogging parka on over her nightgown, 
     she goes outside.

     EXT. IOWA MOTEL - NIGHT

     She crosses the motel parking lot to the horse trailer. She 
     looks in through the siding at Pilgrim, checking on him. She 
     sees he is caught his halter on the side of the van. She 
     crosses to the trailer door, hesitates, then opens it. 
     Pilgrim looks at her. Gathering her courage, she climbs 
     inside. He is still, looking at her. She carefully frees his 
     halter. And suddenly he bares his teeth, biting at her. She 
     stumbles back out of the trailer, slamming the door shut. She 
     stands leaning against the trailer -- wondering if she's out 
     of her mind for attempting this.

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. IOWA MOTEL - LATER THAT SAME MORNING

     Annie is returning from her jog, sweating. As she crosses to 
     her motel room, she stops by the window, looking in to see:

     Grace, on the floor, straining to do her exercises.

     Annie fills with compassion for her girl -- reminded of the 
     struggle she faces everyday.

     EXT. THE BADLANDS - DAY

     In the distance, the Suburban and horse trailer look like a 
     dot on the horizon, moving across the Badlands.

     INT. THE SUBURBAN - ANOTHER TIME, DUSK

     Grace leans against the window in the back, in one of her 
     darker moods. Annie switches radio stations, from Bible 
     thumping to Farm reports. She shuts it off. Silence.

     She sees a ROAD SIGH: "LITTLE BIGHORN NATIONAL MONUMENT".

                     ANNIE
          Grace, look!

     Grace reads the sign.

                      ANNIE
          Would you like to see that?

                      GRACE
          I don't care.

                      ANNIE
               (overlapping)
          I don't care.

     Annie's comic mimicking, throws Grace off center.

     Annie turns off onto the exit. They drive by a massive casino 
     -- it's neon sign flickering. They drive up a hill past a cafe, 
     two Indians in high crowned Cowboy hats standing outside of 
     the cafe. She drives up a hill towards the parking lot of the 
     Monument...

                      ANNIE
          This'll be nice. We haven't seen any 
          of the sights yet. It's history. When 
          I was thirteen I used to love seeing 
          things like this.

                      GRACE
          You were never thirteen, Mom.

     Annie laughs, taking it as a joke. Grace almost smiles.

     But, Annie drives up to sign only to find a CLOSED SIGN. The 
     park was closed at six. Annie stops the car. She's hit a 
     brick wall once more. Silence. Finally, Grace speaks with her 
     usual sarcasm;

                      GRACE
          Great idea. So now what?

     Beat. Annie's patience snaps;

                      ANNIE
          How long is this going to go on?

                      GRACE
          What?

                      ANNIE
          You know what I mean?
               (turns to the back seat)
          Is this it now? Is this the way we're 
          going to be from now on?

     Ignoring her, Grace edges to the passenger side and exits the 
     car. Annie gets out of the driver's side and walks around as 
     she speaks:

                      ANNIE
          Do you want us to turn around and go 
          back home? Do you?

                      GRACE
          What are you asking me for? You didn't 
          ask me if I wanted to come in the first 
          place -- now I get to decide? Forget it!

     She begins to turn away. Annie grabs her arm.

                      ANNIE
          Who do you think I'm doing this for? 
          I'm doing this for you!

                      GRACE
          Bullshit! It's about you! About you 
          deciding! About you always being 
          right! You always getting everything 
          your way, controlling everybody -- 
          like we work for you or something!

                      ANNIE
          I don't believe this!

                      GRACE
          You just want to get away from Daddy 
          and you're using me to do it!

                      ANNIE
          That's not true! Whatever problems your 
          father and I are having, have nothing 
          to do with this.

                      GRACE
          You're amazing! You act like I don't 
          live in that house! Don't you think I 
          hear the two of you!? Don't you think 
          I can tell what's going on? I'm not 
          five years old, Mom!
               (Annie is stopped)
          You want to divorce Daddy and Daddy 
          doesn't want to.

                      ANNIE
          Did he tell you that?

                      GRACE
          He doesn't have to! It's, like, so 
          obvious you can't stand him.

                      ANNIE
          That's not true!

                      GRACE
          Then why do you want to leave?

                      ANNIE
          It's... it's not that simple to explain. 
          I know you think it is, but it's not. 
          The truth is, I don't really know what 
          I want to do. I don't have all the 
          answers.

                      GRACE
          No, you just act like you do.

     Annie is choked with fury. She doesn't know whether to 
     scream, cry or strangle Grace. She turns away and begins 
     walking quickly, blindly, up past a grove of trees. She comes 
     to a CEMETERY enclosed by a black railing. At the crest of 
     the hill there's a stone monument "The Little Bighorn 
     Cemetery."

     In the growing darkness, she sees, scattered on the hillsides 
     below her, white tombstones. A place of sorrow. A cool breeze 
     ruffles her coat and she sticks her hands in her pockets. 
     Frustrated, alone, at a complete loss as to what to do, what 
     action to take -- Annie, for the first time in frozen, 
     standing still -- and with her, comes a rush of emotion.

     She sits with her back against the monument and begins to 
     weep. For Grace, for Robert, herself, for the tombstones, for 
     everyone.

     A FLASHLIGHT shines on her face. It is a PARK RANGER.

                      PARK RANGER
          You okay, ma'am?

                      ANNIE
               (wipes face)
          Yes. Fine.

                      PARK RANGER
          That young lady is getting a little 
          worried.

     Annie realizes she left Grace alone as it got darker.

                      ANNIE
          I'm sorry. I'm sorry...

     Annie rises and is escorted back to the Suburban by the 
     Ranger. She sees:

     Grace is sitting in the front seat now, waiting for her -- 
     like a little girl lost.

     INT. SUBURBAN - CONTINUOUS

     Annie gets into the driver's seat. Buckles up. Grace holds 
     back tears.

                      ANNIE
          You buckled up?
               (Grace nods)
          You cold?

                      GRACE
          Little.

     Annie reaches into the back seat and pulls a blanket out, 
     handing it to Grace, making sure it covers her. Grace turns 
     towards the window and closes her eyes. Annie starts the car.

     EXT. MONTANA, BACK ROAD - MORNING

     C.U. on Pilgrim's head in the trailer as we PULL BACK to 
     reveal the Suburban coming down an empty, seemingly infinite 
     stretch of two-lane road in Montana.

     INT. SUBURBAN - MORNING

     Annie and Grace, both in front seats, eating doughnuts and 
     coffee. They stop.

     POV -- Through the windshield is an endless sky and a rolling 
     sea of land.

                      GRACE
          Gee, this looks like a fun place.

                      ANNIE
          Don't they believe in signs here?

                      GRACE
          What would they say? "Ten miles to big 
          rock." "Twenty miles to bigger rock."

                      ANNIE
          There was supposed to be a turn off. 
          Did I miss it?

                      GRACE
          I didn't see it.

     Their Suburban is the only vehicle on what seems like miles 
     of road. Annie sighs and puts the Suburban in drive.

     EXT. PETERSON'S MOTEL & STABLES, RED FORK MONTANA - DAY

     The Suburban and the horse trailer, pulls into Peterson's -- a 
     collection of motel cottage adjacent to an expanse of land 
     that includes stable, corral, a main house and various riding 
     trails into the mountains.

     Mr. Peterson runs out from the main house to greet Annie as 
     she gets out of the car.

     INT. SUBURBAN, ON ANOTHER MONTANA BACK ROAD - LATER THAT DAY

     Annie, showered and changed, is trying to follow Mr. 
     Peterson's directions to Tom's ranch -- written on Peterson 
     motel stationary. She is lost once again.

                      ANNIE
               (reading)
          ... after left, stay on main road until 
          rise, then...
               (frustrated)
          What bloody rise?!? What main road!?

     She stops the Suburban (no longer carrying the trailer).

     EXT. ANOTHER MONTANA BACK ROAD - CONTINUOUS

     From outside the Suburban, we see, but cannot hear, Annie 
     hitting the steering and cursing in frustration.

     INT. SUBURBAN - CONTINUOUS

     Annie, panting, looks ahead and sees nothing but empty space, 
     above and below -- as if the earth and sky met with nothing in 
     between.

     She sighs and starts the car again. As she moves forward, she 
     senses an almost indistinguishable rise in the road -- as we 
     follow her POV up the road through the windshield to reveal:

     POV -- A BREATHTAKING VALLEY just beyond the rise, hidden 
     from view only a few yards before. THE DOUBLE DIVIDE RANCH 
     sits nestled in the valley, a few miles away. Annie is 
     impressed.

     EXT. THE DOUBLE DIVIDE RANGE - DAY

     Men are working in the corral, saddle horses standing nearby, 
     trying to get a sick calf to suckle a cow. One of the men is 
     Tom Booker, working along side his brother FRANK, and his 
     nephew, JOE. Frank is a good man -- solid work ethic, 
     Christian fearing, wry sense of humor. With the build of a 
     football player, his strength never overwhelms his boyish, 
     good-natured heart. Joe is eleven, wearing his cowboy hat 
     like a badge of honor. The three men seem as inseparable to 
     each other, as they are to the land. As they work:

                      JOE
          Can we take a look at Bronty's foal 
          when we're done here, Dad?

                      FRANK
          Sure. As long as she don't mind.

                      JOE
          There's a kid at school says we 
          should've imprint-trained him.

     Tom and Frank don't say anything. Just nod, knowingly.

                      JOE
          He says if you do it soon as they're 
          born, it makes them real easy to handle 
          later on.

                      FRANK
          That's what some folks say.

                      JOE
          There was this thing on the TV about a 
          guy who does it with geese. He has this 
          airplane and these baby geese all grow 
          up thinking it's their mom, and he flies 
          it and they just follow.
               (to Tom)
          You hear 'bout that, Uncle T?

                      TOM
          Yeah, I hear about that.

                      JOE
          Well, what do you think about that 
          stuff?

                      TOM
          Well, Joe, I'll tell ya -- I don't know 
          a whole lot about geese. Maybe it's okay 
          for them to grow up thinking they're 
          airplanes. But horses, as far as I can 
          tell, can't fly.

     Frank laughs. Joe smirks as Tom messes his hat up. There's the 
     sound of a car. They turn.

     The Suburban is coming over the ridge, heading down the 
     driveway in a cloud of dust.

                      JOE
          We expecting company?

     Frank shakes his head. As the Suburban slows down, Tom 
     recognizes the driver.

                      TOM
          I don't believe it.

                      FRANK
          You know her?

     Annie, out of her element, hiding behind sunglasses, gets out 
     as Tom approaches her by himself. Annie girds herself for the 
     confrontation.

                      ANNIE
          Hello, Mr. Booker. Annie MacLean. From 
          New York. We talked on the phone.

     She extends her hand. TOM shakes it, nodding, staring at her 
     curiously.

                      ANNIE
          It's, uh... beautiful country. I had a 
          little bit of a hard time finding the 
          place. There are no signs.

                      TOM
          Plenty of signs -- just none of them 
          printed. Who do I get the idea you're 
          not just passing through!

                      ANNIE
          Well... OK... here it is... Uh... I'd 
          like you to take a look at my horse. 
          Now -- it won't take long and if, after 
          that, you still don't feel...

                      TOM
          Were you thinking of personally driving 
          me back East?

                      ANNIE
          Oh no. She's here. I brought him along. 
          And my daughter, too. We're staying at 
          Peterson's...

                      TOM
          You mean you hauled him all the way out 
          here? Just like that?

                      ANNIE
               (slightly taken aback)
          Well... yes... I had a trailer. It's not 
          like I made him run along side of the car.

                      TOM
          All by yourself?

     She nods. Tom cannot help be impressed by her guts and fortitude.

     Camera cuts away for a moment to a window in the ranch house, 
     through which DIANE -- Frank's fiery, loyal pioneer wife -- 
     looks at the duo with suspicion.

                      TOM
          I uh... ha, ha... I don't think I ever 
          met a lady quite like yourself and I 
          appreciate all the pains you've gone 
          through to --

                      ANNIE
          Look! Please! Don't do the "shucks, 
          ma'am" thing again!
               (Tom, surprised, listens)
          I've driven a few thousand miles for a 
          few minutes of your time. I've brought 
          him here -- to your neck of the...
               (seeing no woods)
          -- mountains. Just take a look at him. 
          If you still feel the same way, I'll 
          be on the road by morning and you'll 
          never see me again. OK? Deal?

     Tom tries to hide a smile of respect. Annie, thinking she may 
     have him, starts backing away towards her car -- as one would 
     a dangerous animal they think they might have tamed...

                      ANNIE
          We're at Peterson's. Whenever you're 
          free. You don't even have to call.

     She gets into the Suburban. Tom watches her drive off.

     EXT. ANNIE AND GRACE'S COTTAGE - DAY

     Tom walks up some wooden steps to a door and knocks. He hears 
     a TV on inside. And Grace's Voice:

                      GRACE (O.S.)
          MOM! The door!

     He hears Annie's muffled reply from O.S. He hears some banging 
     as Grace fumbles for her crutch and comes to the door. She 
     opens it only so far as to reveal her upper body:

                      GRACE
          Yeah?

                      TOM
          Uh, I'm Tom Booker. Your mother 
          around?

     Grace hops to the side as Tom walks by her, into the room. 
     Grace is closing the door as he turns to see, for the first 
     time, that Grace is one leg.

                      GRACE
          She'll be right out. She's on the 
          phone.

     Grace hops back to the bed in front of the TV. Tom nods and 
     puts his hat down -- noticing the prosthetic leaning against 
     the window, near her bed. He hears Annie on the phone and 
     looks to the other room, the door ajar -- seeing only her 
     legs, seated on the edge of her bed, as she talks. Her foot 
     taps impatiently.

                      TOM
          First time in Montana?

     Grace, rudely nods, still looking at the TV.

     Beat. Tom doesn't like her manner, but can easily see through 
     it. He sits.

                      TOM
          She gonna be long?

                      GRACE
          Probably. She's on the phone twenty-
          three hours a day.

                      TOM
          What does she do?

                      GRACE
          She's an editor.

                      TOM
          Mmm. An editor.

                      GRACE
          Not like books or literature or anything. 
          Just a magazine... Just in case she 
          hasn't told you -- which I'm sure she 
          hasn't -- I don't want to be a part of 
          this, OK?

     Tom just sort of nods. A beat or two later, Annie enters.

                      ANNIE
          Sorry about that. Hi. Grace, this is 
          Mr. Booker... Have you looked at 
          Pilgrim?

     Tom sees Grace turn away, just as Annie enters. He takes a 
     moment. He could say no right there, but something stops him.

                      TOM
          Uh, no. I was gonna take a look now.

                      ANNIE
          You want us to come with you? I just 
          have to run to the main house and give 
          Mr. Peterson a check.

                      TOM
          Doesn't matter.

                      ANNIE
          Grace?... Grace, you want to come with 
          us, take a look at Pilgrim?

     Grace keeps looking at the TV. No reply. Tom is half way out 
     the door when he says to Annie -- making sure Grace can hear --

                      TOM
          Probably best she stays behind, anyway.

     He disappears. Annie gives Grace a final look and exits, closing the door.

     Alone, Grace flings her body across the bed, reaching for her 
     prosthetic -- putting it on feverishly. She is completely 
     intrigued by Tom.

     EXT. PETERSON'S STABLES - DAY

     Tom stands alone at the stable. Opening the bottom door, 
     ducking under the stall, he goes inside.

                      TOM
          Okay now... Okay now...

     Walking towards him, Tom raises his hand, showing Pilgrim a 
     sign of respect, of trust... He quietly makes his way along 
     Pilgrim's side, along his flank, prompting Pilgrim to move 
     out from the shadows, into the light. Tom moves to look at 
     him. And Pilgrim suddenly kicks out at him. Tom, not cowed, 
     stands his ground. He bends, looking at Pilgrim's withered 
     legs. He looks up at his scarred head. He looks into the 
     pools of the horse's tortured eyes. Pilgrim stands still -- 
     allowing Tom this brief intimacy.

     As Grace walks towards the stable, she realizes that the door 
     is open and Tom must be inside. She is amazed.

     Annie, appearing behind her, is also impressed.

     Tom exits the stable and sees them, as he closes the doors.

                      ANNIE
          Well... You're closest anyone's 
          gotten.

     He walks straight towards them -- veering more to Grace. He 
     stops in front of her and they look into each other's eyes -- 
     in a way that reminds us of how Tom looked at Pilgrim.

     Except, Grace is made even more uncomfortable by the intimacy. 
     She turns away and walks to the corral, to lean on a post -- 
     as if she doesn't care. Tom turns to Annie.

                      TOM
          I have to be honest. I still feel 
          you made a long trip for nothing.

     He looks at Annie. Annie has no more words -- just an ever-
     present pleading in her face.

     Tom watches as Grace makes a small, naked movement -- putting 
     her hand on her cheek, like a hurt child.

     He can't help but see these three being connected by one wound.

                      TOM
          But before I even think about it, I 
          need to know something here and now. 
          It's a question for Grace here.

     Grace stiffens.

                      TOM
          When I work with a horse, it's no good 
          just me doing it. It doesn't work that 
          way. The owner needs to be involved too.

                      ANNIE
          Well, that'll be a little complicated --

                      TOM
          You can make it as complicated or as 
          easy as you like. But she's the one 
          who's gonna be riding him, am I right? 
          So here's the deal. I'm not sure I can 
          do anything, but I'm prepared to give 
          it a go --
               (to Grace)
          -- if you'll help.
               (Grace gives a bitter laugh)
          You have a problem with that?

                      GRACE
          Isn't it like, obvious?

                      TOM
          Not to me. Either you want to or you 
          don't.

                      ANNIE
          Look, I'll talk to Grace and call you 
          later--

                      TOM
          Excuse me, with all due respect, but 
          this is her decision, not yours. And I 
          don't want to waste anybody's time -- 
          mostly mine.

     Grace reacts anew to Tom's remark. She likes her mother being 
     dis-empowered. Annie keenly understands the importance of Tom 
     putting it this way to Grace. Grace has all eyes on her -- 
     just what she wants. All waiting for her response. She turns 
     away, flicks her head and says:

                      GRACE
          Well, there's nothing else to do around 
          here.

     Annie smiles in relief. But Tom isn't satisfied.

                      TOM
          Not good enough. I can't help you.

     He starts walking away. Annie doesn't know what to do. Grace 
     mumbles.

                      GRACE
          What do I have to do?

     Tom keeps walking out... Grace says it louder.

                      GRACE
          I said, what do I have to do?!

     Tom stops and looks at her. Annie holds her breath.

     INT. THE RANCH HOUSE, DOUBLE DIVIDE - NIGHT

     Frank, Tom, Joe and TOM TWIN BOYS, 6 years old, sit at a dining 
     table eating dinner, as Diane serves. We parachute into the 
     middle of the conversation:

                      DIANE
          ... well, I just think she's got a lot 
          of nerve showing up here. Draggin' that 
          child and that poor animal all the way...
               (TO ONE OF THE TWINS)
          You eat with those fingers again and you 
          know what'll happen!
               (the boy cowers)
          Frank, don't you think she's got a nerve?

                      FRANK
          Oh hell, I don't know... According to Tom, 
          she's a pretty determined woman. Must've 
          thought it was worth it.

                      DIANE
               (sits down)
          I guess they'll want feeding and all, out 
          here all day long.

                      TOM
          I don't believe they'll expect that.

                      DIANE
          What, they ain't going forty miles into 
          Choteau everytime they want a hamburger.

                      FRANK
          Mixed salad.

                      DIANE
          What?

                      FRANK
               (slyly)
          I believe women from New York eat mixed 
          salads. Ain't that right, Tom?

     Tom hides a grin -- he knows Frank into teasing her now.

                      TOM
          I believe so. Saw it on a television 
          show, once.

                      DIANE
          Well, that's just what we need on a cattle 
          ranch -- a vegetarian from New York.

     Everyone eats. Beat.

                      JOE
          When you figure on branding?

                      FRANK
          Weekend after next...

                      TOM
          If the weather holds.

     Frank nods. Silence again. Everyone eats. Beat.

                      JOE
          What's an editor do anyway?

                      DIANE
               (playing)
          We're not sure, sweetheart, but they 
          eat like rabbits.

     Tom and Frank chuckle. Diane smiles -- in on the joke with 
     them. The children are curiously confused.

     INT. ANNIE AND GRACE'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

     Camera moves to reveal Annie on the phone in front of her 
     computer and fax...  plugging in extension cords as she talks:

                      ANNIE
          ... the phone company's putting in extra 
          lines. I'll call back with the numbers. 
          Oh, and I want you to get in touch with 
          this lady in town here -- they say she's 
          sort of a physical therapist for the 
          rodeo boys but keep the one at the 
          hospital we already contacted on call...

     Grace sits alone in the living room. Watching TV, but anxious 
     and disturbed about what she's committed herself to.

     INT. DOUBLE DIVIDE KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

     Diane is in her bathrobe doing bills at the kitchen table, as 
     she listens to a BOOK OF TAPE. Her hand on her forehead, her 
     other hand writing. Tom enters to take his hat off the 
     sideboard. He moves to the table and reaches over for a 
     cookie from a plate of cookies. Without looking up, Diane 
     slaps his hand. Tom then pours himself a cup of coffee... then 
     swiftly sneaks his hand back and grabs a cookie. Diane smiles. 
     Tom exits.

     It is only then that Diane looks up after him.

     INT. UPPER FLOOR OF RANCH HOUSE - NIGHT

     Camera follows Tom towards his bedroom --  passing the others. 
     Perhaps we see Frank sprawled out asleep already in his 
     underwear. We might see the Twins in their bunks. One of the 
     Twins' lower torso is laying outside of the blanket. He 
     casually flips the blanket over the kid's bare feet and 
     continues to his room.

     INT. TOM'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

     Tom enters and closes the door. Turns on a stereo which plays 
     a cello piece by Yo-Yo Ma. Books fills his room. He sits at 
     his desk, puts on eye glasses and looks through some paperwork. 
     Suddenly he stops, looking over the paperwork, into space. A 
     thought passes by. We don't know what.

                                   FADE OUT:

     EXT. THE RANCH, A CORRAL - DAYBREAK

     First light of day. Pilgrim stands stock still in the middle 
     of the corral. Tom, motionless, is crouched on his haunches 
     in the corral -- watching him.

     TOM'S POV: As Pilgrim moves, he can see that the horse is 
     stove up.

     He softly tosses a handful of dirt at Pilgrim's withered 
     legs... Pilgrim, sensitive to the slightest provocation, 
     bucks, wheeling away from him. Then stops. Tom sits on his 
     haunches again... and watches him.

     Frank appears, exiting from the barn (perhaps).

                      FRANK
          Tom?

                      TOM
          Yeah.

     Tom leaves Pilgrim, hooking up with Frank -- the two brothers 
     go off, discussing the ranch work that is ahead of them.

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. THE RANCH - ANOTHER DAY

     Annie and Grace arrive in the Suburban. They exit. As they 
     head towards the ranch, they see in the distance:

     Pilgrim standing along the fence of a round pen. Tom stands 
     in the pen, holding a rope, looking at Pilgrim.

     EXT. THE ROUND PEN - DAY

     Tom stands in the pen with Pilgrim. He looks to see Annie and 
     Grace approaching but makes no acknowledgement. He turns his 
     focus back to Pilgrim.

     Annie and Grace appear. Grace takes a position (that is to 
     become her regular spot) a distance away from the pen. Annie 
     moves in closer, beside SMOKEY (a ranch hand) with one leg 
     up on the pen fence.

                      SMOKEY
          Howdy...
               (sees Grace)
          Howdy.

     He and Annie watch as Tom stands before Pilgrim -- turning 
     sideways... then standing...

                       ANNIE
          What's he doing?

                       SMOKEY
          Trying to get his eye.

                      ANNIE
          How's it going?

     Smokey doesn't respond -- how it's going is exactly how it 
     looks. Tom takes a few steps, stops and stands still again. We 
     sense the process is long and requires great patience.

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. ROUND PEN - DAY

     Two hours later. Grace is in the same spot. Smokey is gone, 
     doing his work. Annie has taken a different position, looking 
     over SEVERAL PAGES OF FAXES on her lap.

     Tom is still standing in the pen trying to get Pilgrim's eyes.

     Joe has joined the proceedings, sitting on the pen rail.

     Tom deftly throws a hoolihan, gently lassoing Pilgrim around 
     the neck. And Pilgrim, at the touch of the rope, crazed, 
     resists, pulling back, striking at the rope... The rope 
     cutting into Tom's hands. Tom gives him some slack, giving 
     his head, letting him relax... then gently heads him by the 
     rope, walking him around the pen, getting his feet to moving.

     Grace's eyes never leave Tom.

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

     Tom, off in the distance -- against a sky that seems to be 
     touching the land -- is riding along a creek. Closer up, we 
     see he's rustling the bushes with a stick. Some stray cows 
     run out of the bushes. Tom races after them. His horse 
     shepherds the cow across the creek and up a hillside.

     At the top of the hill, with the ranch spread out endlessly 
     before him, Tom sees Frank on his horse, chasing strays. Tom 
     whistles. Frank waves back. In the near distance, a pickup 
     truck is parked on the range.

     Joe and the TWINS are throwing food pellets out of the back 
     of the truck. Cattle come from across the range for the food. 
     What begins as a handful of cows becomes dozens, then 
     hundreds -- the truck virtually disappearing among them.

     Tom stops for a moment to look out at his ranch. Far off in 
     the distance, he sees Annie's Suburban coming along the road 
     to the ranch. He watches as Annie's distant figure gets out 
     of the car with Grace. Annie instinctively turns and looks 
     across the land. Even though there is such a distance, 
     there's a sense Tom and Annie are looking at each other.

     Tom senses Joe driving Frank's truck, slowly moving off the 
     range -- the Twins in the back, the cattle following. Tom sits 
     on his horse atop the hill.

     EXT. THE DOUBLE DIVIDE - ANOTHER DAY

     Pilgrim, his scarred head above water, legs moving in odd 
     sycopation, swimming. We discover he is in a pond, tethered 
     to a pole... Except for the sound of his legs in the water, 
     everything is quiet and focused on Pilgrim.

     SMOKEY, holds the pole, walking on the outside of the pond, 
     leading Pilgrim back and forth as he swims. Tom, crouched by 
     the pond, silently concentrating on Pilgrim...

     Grace watches, off by herself... Annie stands beside Joe. She 
     can't help but be intrigued by the sight. She asks Joe;

                      ANNIE
          I though horses were afraid of 
          water?

     Joe doesn't answer her. Grace likes that. Annie, frustrated, 
     feels she has the right to simple shout out to Tom.

                      ANNIE
          Is that to get his strength back?

     Tom pays her no mind -- concentrating on Pilgrim.

     Suddenly, Annie's CELL PHONE rings, jarring the proceedings. 
     Tom turns to Annie. She hides her embarrassment by answering 
     it, walking away. Tom gives her a look. Grace is loving this. 
     Tom turns back to Pilgrim. After a few moments --

     Tom, taking the rope tether, unhooks it from the pole. He 
     starts to lead Pilgrim out of the water. Pilgrim, fearful, 
     fights him. He rears, splashing Tom, not wanting to come out 
     of the water. Grace is worried. She looks to Joe and sees he 
     is concerned too, though he stands quietly.

     Annie hears the commotion from where she stands and finishes 
     her call to return to the pond.

     Tom enters the pond, waist deep in water, trying to grab 
     Pilgrim's rope. Pilgrim rises up, rearing at him. Joe and 
     Smokey, sensing danger, come closer to the pond. Annie 
     appears beside Grace and watches as Tom reaches for the rope 
     again. Pilgrim rears again. Tom stumbles backwards from his 
     hooves. Annie gasps. Grace turns to walk away from the pond. 
     She can't watch -- it brings back too much. But as she does, 
     she is stopped by the sight of --

     Tom, righting himself, unphased, calmly walks back to Pilgrim. 
     The horse, baffled by this man's lack of fear, lets him take 
     the rope and walk him out of the pond.

     Grace can't help but be impressed. Joe nods. Annie is shaken.

                    ANNIE
          Mr. Booker, I'm not at all comfortable 
          with you taking those kinds of chances...

     As Tom leads Pilgrim out, the horse suddenly whirls, bolting, 
     knocking Tom down...

                      ANNIE
          Oh, God!

     Pilgrim runs off, pulling the wet rope behind him. Joe runs 
     over and grabs for the rope.

                      TOM
          NO... LET HIM GO!

     Joe obeys. Pilgrim runs past the corral and down into a hill 
     out onto a pasture, He keeps on running into the distance --
     running across the pasture, not knowing where he is going...

     Tom, arms folded across his chest, watches him run. A 
     concerned Annie approaches.

                      ANNIE
          She's running away! How are you going 
          to get him back?

     Tom doesn't respond. He walks off down the hill out onto the 
     pasture, stops, arms folded and watches Pilgrim. Annie turns 
     when she hears Smokey, who appears behind her:

                      SMOKEY
          He don't really want to run. Don't 
          know where he's going. All this open 
          space scares the daylight out of him.

     Confused, Pilgrim stops running and walks, in no particular 
     direction.

                      SMOKEY
          My guess is he's spent his life in a 
          six-by-eight stall... He's forgot what 
          it's like to be a horse...

     Smokey ambles off and she turns back to see Tom crouching on 
     his haunches, sitting in the grass, just waiting. Pilgrim 
     walks back towards the ranch, stops a distance from Tom, 
     looks at him... Annie, needing to know exactly what's going 
     on, crosses down the hill to him.

                      ANNIE
          So what now? Should we leave?

     Tom continues watching Pilgrim. Annie looks at him, sitting 
     there motionless and feels like an idiot. Clearly she doesn't 
     understand all this and clearly no one thinks this is the 
     time to explain to her.

                      ANNIE
          Well, we're going to go then...

     Without looking at her, Tom just nods. Annie, awkwardly, 
     walks back up the hill to where Grace is...

     ON THE GRASSY HILLSIDE, Grace is watching the scene by herself 
     as Joe appears, staring at her leg... It makes her uncomfortable. 
     She turns to him with a curt, impatient tone;

                      GRACE
          What?

     Their eyes meet. Joe is so guileless, Grace is taken off guard 
     when he asks in such a compassionate voice;

                      JOE
          Does that hurt you?

     Grace tries to think of an answer -- and of how to say it:

                      GRACE
          Only when I kick somebody.

     Her gentle delivery makes him smile. She smiles, then:

                      GRACE
          Don't you go to school?

                      JOE
          Twice a month they give you a day off 
          to work on the ranch.

     He tips his hat down as he looks out to Pilgrim with respect;

                      JOE
          Look at him out in the pasture -- Yeah, 
          he must've been a big, beautiful looking 
          horse. How was he to ride?

     Grace is uncomfortable again. She looks away, just struggling. 
     Joe senses she's done talking;

                      JOE
          Excuse me. I got chores to look after.

     He tips his hat and walks off, passing Annie as she arrives.

                      ANNIE
          You ready to go?

     Grace hesitates. Then mother and daughter take one more look --

     POV -- Pilgrim standing in the pasture with Tom crouching in 
     the grass waiting for him.

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. PASTURE - LATER THAT DAY

     Tom is still sitting in the grass, just where we left him -- 
     waiting patiently. Pilgrim is still out in the pasture.

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. PASTURE - STILL LATER THAT DAY

     Afternoon shadows cross the ranch. Tom is in the exact same 
     spot and position. Pilgrim is somewhat closer -- but still at 
     a distance -- watching him.

     Frank rides back from work. As he passes Tom, the two nod as 
     if nothing usually is going on. Frank rides up to the barn.

     INT. PETERSON'S MOTEL -

     Grace is flicking the television -- repeating the only three 
     channels over and over...

     Annie works at her computer, surrounded by work. She notices 
     the time, gets a thought and dials the phone...

                      ANNIE
          Hello, Mr. Booker... Oh, hello, Frank. 
          This is Annie MacLean... I was 
          wondering, has-...
               (listens)
          Uh-huh... And Pilgrim?...
               (listens)
          Still?... Uh-huh...
               (politely cheery)
          Okay then. Thank you.

     She hangs up, pauses, then speaks to the window out loud enough 
     for Grace to hear --

                      ANNIE
          He's still sitting in that damn 
          field.

                      GRACE
               (w/o looking at her)
          I think they call it a pasture.

     Annie looks at her as if to say the last thing I need to know is 
     a lesson on the local lingo...

                      ANNIE
          Let's go see what's going on, then 
          get something to eat.

     EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE RANCH - DUSK

     The sky is changing colors, the temperature has dropped. Tom 
     is still sitting in the grass, although someone has brought 
     him a blanket for his shoulders. Pilgrim is in the pasture, 
     but now -- he too is motionless, looking back at Tom.

     The sound of a car makes Tom turn to see Annie driving up. 
     She gets out, stands by the car with a proprietary air, 
     watching Tom and Pilgrim. Grace remains in the car. There's a 
     sound. She turns to see Diane coming out of the house...

                      DIANE
          There's coffee inside... I was just 
          bringing this to Tom.

                      ANNIE
          Would you mind if I did? I'd like to 
          talk to him.

     Diane, knowing full well Tom ain't in a talking mood, hands 
     her a cup...

                      DIANE
          Sure.
               (seeing Grace in car)
          Does your daughter want to come 
          inside?

                      ANNIE
          Uh, no, we're going to dinner... Is 
          this the way to the pasture?

                      DIANE
          Pasture? Oh, that stretch of field near 
          the hill? Yeah.

     She's gone. Annie grimaces, then crosses the hillside to 
     where Tom is squatting down. She appears to his side and, 
     without speaking, tries to indicates she has his coffee by 
     leaning it toward him. Tom sees her and accepts it with a 
     grateful nod. Annie waits. Nothing happens. Feeling foolish, 
     she begins to walk back.

     At some point, she turns to see Pilgrim moving across the 
     pasture toward Tom. He stops in front of him, just a few feet 
     away. Tom says something to him. Annie is intrigued -- and she 
     knows enough to stay quiet now. She watches Pilgrim walk over 
     to him. She watches as Tom gets up and pats Pilgrim's scarred 
     head. In spite of herself, Annie is somewhat moved by this act.

     Only we see Grace, peering out from the car, seeing this act 
     of communion as well. Only we see her reaction to it.

     As Tom turns and walks back to the ranch, Pilgrim follows him. 
     As he passes Annie, all he says is...

                      TOM
          From now on, leave your phone 
          somewhere else...

     As he moves past her, Annie responds;

                      ANNIE
          But I have business calls I have 
          to --

     Tom keeps heading for the barn as he suggests, without turning 
     back;

                      TOM
          Then drop off Grace in the morning, 
          go on back and do your business. 
          Come pick her up around dinner.

     Standing there, Annie has the impulse to respond to this 
     suggestion, but has no idea what to say and saying it wouldn't 
     make much sense since Tom is already out of ear shot.

     Diane appears from the house and calls out:

                      DIANE
          Mrs. MacLean -- why don't you and 
          daughter stay for dinner?

                      ANNIE
          Oh uh, thank you. No, we don't want to 
          impose.

                      DIANE
          No imposition. Plenty of food. Gonna 
          get pretty dark soon. Hard to find a 
          place.

     Annie looks up to the alien sky and realizes she's right. She 
     looks to Grace, who doesn't seem to oppose the idea.

     INT. RANCH HOUSE/KITCHEN - NIGHT

     Everyone sits around the kitchen table. Joe, still wearing 
     his hat, eyes Annie and Grace with acute curiosity.

                      DIANE
          Joe, take off the hat -- I'm not 
          going to say it again.

     Joe obeys. Diane puts the last of the serving plates on the 
     table -- pork chops, potatoes, gravy, peas, bread... And a big 
     bowl of mixed salad. The boy can't help eyeing how the 
     "vegetarians" will act.

     Annie and Grace eye the food. Annie reaches out for a serving 
     ladle, picking up Grace's plate to serve her as Grace reaches 
     for a piece of bread, when:

                      FRANK
          Dear Lord, we are humbly thankful 
          for...

     Annie and Grace freeze as Frank continues his prayer -- they 
     notice everyone's head bowed slightly.

                      FRANK
               (continues)
          these gifts. For the blessings on our 
          home, our family and our guests. Bless 
          those that aren't as fortunate. Bless 
          all God's creatures.

                      EVERYONE
          Amen.

     Everyone begins eating. Annie and Grace breath a sigh of relief. 
     Silence. Utensils hitting plates, the only sound.

                      FRANK
          Bank out us a couple more men to run 
          the cattle.

                      TOM
          We should be fine, then.

     Beat. Annie and Grace listen...

                      JOE
          Teacher asked me why we raise Black 
          Angus-Herefords 'stead of Pure Herefords.

                      FRANK
          Tell her they suit the weather better. 
          Their udders are black, 'stead of pink.

                      TOM
          They don't get burned by the sun bouncing 
          off the snow. And they're good mother.

                      FRANK
          Our daddy raised Pure Herefords.

     Silence... Eating... Annie tries her hand at conversation:

                      ANNIE
          You know, that's interesting. I always 
          wondered when I went into a restaurant 
          what was the difference between a regular 
          steak or a Black Angus steak. I couldn't 
          taste any difference although I could 
          swear one was more tender. I didn't know 
          there was that big a difference between 
          cows...
               (silence)
          I've never been on a cow farm before. I 
          must say, the bulls seem to have the 
          best time of it. Just laying around the 
          fields all day until they're asked to...
               (uncomfortable)
          do their... work.

                      FRANK
          Well, get born a bull, got a ninety 
          percent chance of getting castrated and 
          served up as hamburger. On a balance I 
          reckon I'd choose being a cow.
               (to Grace)
          Would you mind passing that salad 
          young lady?

                      DIANE
          How's Peterson's holding up for you?

                      ANNIE
               (lying)
          It's fine. Comfortable. I still can't 
          get used to how dark it gets around here, 
          though. When we leave the ranch, I 
          always hold my breath until I can see 
          the motel.

                      FRANK
               (innocently)
          You know, Tom, while you're working on 
          that horse of theirs, Annie and Grace 
          should move into the old Creek house.

     Diane and Tom react accordingly; Diane hiding her annoyance, 
     Tom hiding his surprise and pleasure.

                      FRANK
          Nobody's using it. Silly for her to be 
          driving back and forth when she don't 
          know her way around that well...

                      ANNIE
          Oh, I don't know...

                      FRANK
          Well, I know Peterson's. Old place is as 
          good as falling down around your ears.

                      DIANE
               (overlapping)
          They're already all settled in, Frank. 
          Anyway, I'm sure Annie wants her privacy.

                      FRANK
          It's got doors, Diane. Private as can be. 
          Tom?

                      TOM
          I don't have a problem with that. It's up 
          to Annie.

                      ANNIE
          Well, it's worth it, really? I mean, how 
          much longer do you think you need to work 
          with Pilgrim?

                      TOM
          That's up to Pilgrim.

     Everyone waits on Annie's answer as she considers this.

     INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

     Grace is on the phone with Robert. Annie is packing things 
     up. Grace is telling him about the day;

                      GRACE
               (listens)
          I know. Me, too. Why don't you come 
          one weekend?

     Annie reacts to this.

                      GRACE
          We'll have more room because we're 
          moving onto the ranch. They have this 
          empty house near this creek. It's 
          actually pretty... OK... I love you.
               (to Annie)
          Dad wants to talk to you.

                      ANNIE
               (takes the phone)
          Hi.

     INTERCUT

     INT. CENTRAL PARK WEST APARTMENT - NIGHT

     Robert is burning the midnight oil in the study with files 
     all around him.

                      ROBERT
          Hey... She sounds like she's doing 
          all right. How is she?

     Grace exits into the bathroom. Annie talks softly;

                      ANNIE
               (cautious)
          Yeah. She seems to be getting more 
          comfortable on the ranch, which is why 
          I said yes to this move. But, whenever 
          it's just the two of us, I don't know... 
          Anyway... what's happening with the 
          Delco lawsuit?

                      ROBERT
          Taking forever. I just got an additional 
          list of sixty-two employees to interview 
          before Monday. I don't know how I'm going 
          to do it.

                      ANNIE
          Well, it's good that you're there.

     Robert didn't mean to validate his separation from them.

                      ROBERT
          So, how are you doing in Marlboro 
          country? Is the magazine complaining at 
          all?

                      ANNIE
          Yeah, but nothing I can't handle. Lucy 
          tells me she thinks Gottchalks's 
          plotting, but what else is new.

                      ROBERT
          When are you coming home?

                      ANNIE
          You know, I just asked that myself 
          tonight. He doesn't know.

                      ROBERT
          Well then... maybe I will take some 
          time... come visit.

                      ANNIE
          Okay.

     Beat. Annie knows Robert needed an invitation from her. But 
     she can't do it. Robert tries again.

                      ROBERT
          I miss you, Annie.

                      ANNIE
          I know. We miss you too.

                      ROBERT
          Good night.

                      ANNIE
          Night.

     Awkwardly, they hang up. Grace exits the bathroom.

                      GRACE
          Did you ask him to come visit?

                      ANNIE
          You already did.

                      GRACE
          Did he mention it?

                      ANNIE
                (resumes packing)
          Yeah, he's going to think about it. 
          You want me to pack for you?

     Grace looks at her disapprovingly as she passes to go to the 
     bathroom. Annie registers this.

     INT. RANCH HOUSE - LATE DAY

     Diane is washing windows while listening to an audio book on 
     her tape player. Through the windows, she sees:

     Joe and the Twins helping Annie and Grace move into the Creek 
     House.

     Diane has conflicting feelings about this. She continues her 
     work.

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - LATE DAY

     VARIOUS SHOTS of ANNIE CONNECTING HERSELF BACK TO THE REST OF 
     THE WORLD, BY PLUGGING IN HER COMPUTER, FAX, ETC...

     Grace is in the other room, as she was in the motel. Alone. 
     With no television, she is just listening to her music laying 
     on the couch. The two women remain separate no matter where 
     they are.

     But we see a small difference. Grace rises and walks to the 
     window. She looks out;

     POV: She sees people working about the ranch. Maybe Joe is 
     among them -- riding his horse as he works. Or maybe it's 
     just a vision of people with tasks to complete -- who do so 
     with pride, discipline and clarity.

     Grace looks out the window longingly.

     EXT. THE RANCH - ANOTHER DAY

     A cloud of dust. A dozen or so horses are running in an arena 
     by the stables. Tom is riding among them, holding a long stick 
     with an orange flag at the end of it, waving it at the young 
     horses, making them run away from him. The colts stay close 
     together. One of the horses, PILGRIM, stays at a distance, off 
     to himself.

     Grace watches from along the railing. She alternates her 
     attention from the horses... to Tom.

                      TOM
           What we're doing here, Grace, is 
           trying to get him to learn how to 
           be a horse again.

     He cracks the flag, the horses move together...

                         TOM
          The others already know, see. That's 
          how they are in the wild -- herd 
          animals...
               (cracks the flag)
          ...When they've got a problem, like 
          they have now with me and this flag, 
          they look to each other. But old 
          Pilgrim there has forgotten. I'm the 
          rock and they're the hard place. He 
          thinks he hasn't got a friend in the 
          whole wild world...

     C.U. on GRACE, who clearly feels the same way... but wants 
     desperately not to. She watches him ride off towards Pilgrim 
     who has stopped like all the others at the far end of the 
     ring. He stands by himself, tossing his head, snorting, not 
     wanting to be around other horses. Tom cracks the flag, 
     keeping them moving. Pilgrim does his own private dance.

     Tom rides by Grace and hands her the stick;

                      TOM
          Hold this for a minute...

     Grace stiffens. She doesn't want to, but she's afraid to say 
     "No" to Tom. He just insists by tossing it to her...

                      TOM
          Hold onto it, go on...

     She's forced to catch it. He turns and rides away, chasing 
     down Pilgrim, trying to edge him toward the herd. For a 
     moment, he has him breaking to the left with the horses. But 
     as soon as he's clear of Tom, he separates himself and comes 
     to stop on his own.

     Tom rides back to Grace, taking back the flag.

                      TOM
          We'll get there, Grace.

     As he says this, he flashes a small, reassuring smile and a 
     little wink. Grace melts just a little. As he rides away.

     Annie appears, having come from the Creek House. She calls:

                      ANNIE
          Grace? The clinic just called... 
          They had to change your physical 
          therapy appointment. We have to 
          leave now.

     Grace frowns a little -- her mother's "perfect timing." Annie 
     approaches the arena, watching Tom riding. As he passes her;

                      TOM
          Hello, Annie...

     Annie notices how he says her name.

                      ANNIE
          Mr. Booker...

     He flashes a smile in her direction and Annie's expression 
     comically matches her daughter's reaction. She quickly covers 
     it, however. Her eyes follow him as he glides around the 
     arena. It's like watching a great ballet -- his control of the 
     horses, his effortlessness, his grace, his strength... She 
     smiles to herself in appreciation. Then catches herself:

                      ANNIE
               (to Grace)
          You got everything you need?

                      GRACE
          If I had everything I need, I wouldn't 
          be going to physical therapy.

     Tom approaches as he overhears Grace respond;

                      ANNIE
                 (trying to cheer her)
          Honey, come on. Would you like to stay 
          in town for dinner? Maybe see what 
          movie's playing tonight?

                      GRACE
          Why? There's no food in the house?

                      ANNIE
          No. I just thought... forget it.

     He's getting a clearer view of their relationship.

                      TOM
          You know, we're branding here 
          tomorrow. If you two want to come 
          by to watch or give a hand, you're 
          welcome.

                      ANNIE
               (laughs)
          Branding?
               (sarcastic)
          I haven't branded in years.

     Tom chuckles.

                      GRACE
          I'll come.

                      ANNIE
          Uh, I don't, honey. Branding? Oooh... 
          I think we'd just be in Mr. Booker's 
          way.

                      TOM
          As long as you don't get in the way of 
          the branding iron, it doesn't matter too 
          much.

     Annie smiles. She turns to Grace, questioningly. Grace says 
     matter-of-factly, to prove her point.

                      GRACE
          I watched Margo Neuberger get a 
          tattoo.

     Tom squints. Annie shrugs and nods.

                      ANNIE
          Okay.

     As Grace and Annie walk to the car, Tom says:

                      TOM
          Hey, Grace -- maybe we can get your 
          mom to put me and you branding on the 
          cover of her magazine. Start a whole 
          new fashion craze.

     They continue walking as Grace smiles, enjoying being singled 
     out for his joke. Annie responds, almost flirtatiously.

                      ANNIE
          Try not to fall off your high horse, 
          Mr. Booker.

     Tom tips his hat and rides away... Annie smiles and nods... 
     Grace doesn't like their sudden familiarity. Or her mother's 
     coy manner. As they enter the Suburban, Grace asks point blank;

                      GRACE
          Did you call Dad today?

     Annie is caught off guard.

     Tom, riding in the arena, catches himself looking after them... 
     then goes riding after Pilgrim.

     EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

     The air smells of scorched flesh. There is nothing but NOISE. 
     Calves, separated from their mothers, "cry." They are moved 
     out through a series of connected pens into a narrow chute, 
     and then one by one into a holding pen. They're clamped and 
     lowered sideways onto a table and given a shot, a yellow 
     insect tag in one ear, branded, then sent back to their 
     mother's. The bulls, in a pen by themselves, stand haughty, 
     paying no attention. Frank helps "doctor" the calves. Joe 
     brands.

     Annie and Grace are standing by the railing, watching with a 
     mixture of fascination and disgust.

     Tom moves in the feeder pen, waist deep in calves, moving them 
     through the chute. He looks to Annie.

                      TOM
          Hey, over there, you want to make 
          yourself useful?

     It isn't a question.

                      TOM
          Hank, I got you a volunteer!

     Annie and Grace realize they have no choice.

     -- WHAT FOLLOWS IS A SEQUENCE OF SCENES SHOWING ANNIE AND 
     GRACE PARTICIPATING IN THE BRANDING. AND HOW THEY GRADUALLY 
     COME TO LOSE THEMSELVES IN THE EXPERIENCE.

     SEQUENCES WILL INCLUDE:

     -- HANK, A RANCH HEAD, HELPING ANNIE INTO THE CHUTE... ANNIE 
     GETTING KICKED BY A CALF.

     -- GRACE BEING SHOWN HOW TO HOLD THE BRANDING IRON.

     -- HANK TEACHING ANNIE HOW TO SAY "HYAH!!"...

     -- TOM IN THE HOLDING PEN WITH HIS ARMS AROUND GRACE, SHOWING 
     HER HOW TO APPLY THE BRAND... GRACE, A LITTLE FRIGHTENED OF THE 
     BRAND, IS IN HEAVEN IN TOM'S ARMS...

     -- ANNIE IS STILL TRYING TO SAY "HYAH"!! WITH THE PROPER FORCE. 
     SHE CLAPS HER HANDS, PUSHING THE CALVES ALONG, KNEE DEEP IN 
     COW SHIT.

     -- GRACE CLOSES HER EYES AND THE IRON TOUCHES THE CALF'S HIDE.

                      TOM
          That's good... firm but gentle...
               (Grace opens her eyes)
          It hurts but he'll get over it.

     Grace smiles proudly.

                      TOM
          You handled that pretty well. Think 
          it's time you earn your keep around 
          here. So, when we're not working 
          and when you don't have your therapy, 
          I'd like you to help out with the 
          horses... Rubbing them, cleaning up 
          the stalls... You think you can 
          handle that?

     Grace knows him well enough to know;

                      GRACE
          That's not a question, is it?

                      TOM
          You're catching on.

     Grace smiles.

     -- Annie turns and, not looking where she's doing, trips over 
     a calf, falling down. And calves, coming down the chute, 
     start to run towards her. Suddenly, Tom grabs her by the leg 
     and pulls her to safety. He helps her up and dusts her off.

                      TOM
               (not wanting to smile, 
                but...)
          You okay?

                      ANNIE
          It is cocktail hour yet?

     Tom laughs. She takes a big breath.

     EXT. THE RANCH - LATE AFTERNOON

     The ranch is colored in amber light.

     Near the house, two long tables pushed together to make one 
     long one... A gentle breeze ruffles the tablecloth. Everyone 
     is seated for a meal. We hear laughter and conversation... We 
     parachute into the middle of the moments;

     -- Hank helping with his wife get to their three children to 
     sit still for dinner...

     -- Diane organizing the women and their various plates of side 
     dishes...

     -- The Ranch Hand piling up their plates and kidding each 
     other...

     -- Joe is instructing Grace on the various sauces for the 
     ribs. The Twins are making fun of him behind his back.

     -- Tom and Smokey are barbecuing, the last one to sit.

     -- Frank assists his frail mother, ELLEN BOOKER, at the table, 
     filling her plate with all the things she can't reach for.

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

     The faces are beautiful. Laughing. Eating. Everyone is tanned 
     and exhausted after a long day, but filled with life and 
     eager to live it. The tables are covered with heavy food. 
     The communion at this table is as much a part of the ritual 
     as the branding itself...

     Annie and Grace look different to us. Tanned from the sun, 
     their bodies sore -- they feel softened, yet more vital. As if 
     the artifice had been worn off... the armor of urban life. As 
     the table thrives with conversations, we focus on:

     Annie and Ellen Booker. Annie looks calmer than we've seen 
     her -- and more naturally beautiful. She is seated beside 
     Ellen Booker. We sense they have been talking for a while. 
     Annie is so sincerely interested in listening to her, she's 
     hardly touched her own plate...

                      ELLEN BOOKER
          ... he was a blacksmith by trade, my 
          father. My grandson Joe was named 
          for him. But he always dreamed of 
          having his own place and raising 
          horses...

     We see Tom a few places down and across from Annie and his 
     mother -- but fully aware of their conversation.

                      ELLEN BOOKER
          He'd heard of some land. What's 
          Stockett now. Rode out there. Got off 
          his horse and walked about as far as 
          he could in one way. Then he walked as 
          far as he could another way and 
          another until he got back to where he 
          started and that's where he put his 
          roots down... That's where my husband 
          and I ranched and raised Frank and 
          Tommy...

     She motions proudly to Tom who looks up. Annie smiles to him. 
     He looks to her with gratitude for the respect she's showing 
     his mother.

                      ELLEN BOOKER
          Quite a different life from what you 
          know, I expect. Which place to you 
          call home?

                      ANNIE
          Well, I was born in London, but my 
          father was an ambassador and we 
          moved constantly. I've lived in a lot 
          of places but I don't really know what 
          I'd call home.

     Tom listens to this.

                      ELLEN BOOKER
          An ambassador! My! That's very 
          important.

                      ANNIE
          He was a wonderful man.

     She looks to Tom and he can sense a sadness around this in her 
     eyes.

                      DIANE
               (to Grace)
          I sure hope you're gonna eat more 
          than that, young lady. You're a 
          growing girl.

                      GRACE
          I've never eaten this much in my 
          life.

                      DIANE
          Probably never worked so hard, 
          neither. Those arms of yours are 
          gonna be pretty sore tomorrow. I'll 
          give you a little bit of ointment I 
          make. It's a magic recipe my Mama 
          gave me.

                      FRANK
          We used to call Diane's mother 
          Medicine Woman. None of us never went 
          to the doctor when she was alive.

     Annie and Grace listen in...

                      HANK
          Too bad she wasn't here for old 
          Henry Vanoker...

                      FRANK
          Not much would have helped him.

                      DIANE
          I never got that whole story, what 
          happened?

                      HANK
          Old Henry was changing a flat tire on 
          his truck over on 118 when that...
               (laughs)
          ... two-hundred-year-old jack he has 
          gives way and the side of that truck 
          come slamming down on that rock he 
          calls head...

     There's laughter -- everyone knows Old Henry. Except:

                      ANNIE
          What happened?

                      HANK
          Knocked him out for a while. He woke 
          up, finished putting on the tire and 
          drove himself to the hospital.

                      DIANE
          Old Fool... Darling, pass down those peas 
          for me, thank you.

     Annie and Grace don't know how to respond... But everyone else 
     takes it their stride as they continue eating...

     Grace notices Joe is whispering something to Frank, who nods 
     his head and speaks to the table.

                      FRANK
          Huh, Joe here has something to say.

     Joe stands, somewhat formally, with his hat on.

                      JOE
          I wrote this for you Grandma...

     Mrs. Booker, and Diane, beam. Annie and Grace don't know what 
     to expect. Joe stands straight as an arrow and recites a poem 
     from memory...

     At first, Annie and Grace appear to be embarrassed for the boy 
     but soon they can't help but be won over by his guilessness. 
     He finishes and everyone applauds. Hank's wife asks:

                      HANK'S WIFE
          That was lovely. Who wrote that, 
          Joe?

                      JOE
          I wrote it myself, ma'am.

                      FRANK
          Now son, you tell 'em when it came 
          from.

                      JOE
          Be honest, I can't say I did it all 
          myself. My grandma helped me get the 
          words right.

     OOoo's and aah's and smiles and conversations erupting over 
     each other.

     Only we see, Grace looking over to Joe who gives her kickass, 
     shy grin...

                      TOM
               (raising his beer)
          Well, I'd like to welcome Annie and 
          Grace to their first branding...

                      FRANK
          And next time, Miss Annie, you can run 
          down the calves...

                      ANNIE
          I'll drink to that...

     Everyone toasts and drinks. Annie and Tom exchange a look. 
     She smiles, but not in a alluring way -- rather, in a grateful 
     way. Grateful for this brief moment of community and good 
     feeling. And somehow, Tom knows what she's feeling.

     No one notices this silent exchange -- except for Diane, who 
     sees everything that's going on.

     INT. RANCH HOUSE, DINING ROOM - NIGHTFALL

     The Women are bringing in dishes and plates and food from the 
     tables through the house and into the kitchen. Annie is among 
     them, feeling apart of the group. She enters carrying a large 
     bowl, that held the corn.

     Diane is replacing newly-cleaned forks and knives in her 
     dining room drawers, above which are several FAMILY PICTURES.

                      ANNIE
               (referring to clean bowl)
          Where does this go, Diane?

                      DIANE
          Oh, you can just set up on the dining 
          table. I have to rearrange my shelves 
          tomorrow.

     Annie complies. She notices the framed pictures on the wall in 
     the dining room.

                      ANNIE
          Is this Mr. Booker? Tom's 
          grandfather?

     Diane looks at a faded photo circa late 1800's.

                      DIANE
          Mm-mm. I never knew him. He died 
          before Frank and I met. This here's...
               (another photo)
          Frank and Tom's mother and father... 
          there's little Frank and Tom...

                      ANNIE
          She calls him Tommy...

                      DIANE
          Always did. I think she favored him a 
          little. You tend to when you have more 
          than one, even though you love 'em all 
          the same.

     She studies the old faces of Tom's Parents -- although 20th 
     Century people, there is still a pioneering strength in their 
     visage... a stoicism and power.

                      DIANE
               (putting away forks)
          Ha, she loves telling this story about 
          how when he was two years old, he ran off. 
          They found him in the barn, sleeping 
          between two giant hooves of a Percheron 
          stallion. She said that horse was 
          protecting him and nobody could convince 
          her otherwise.

                      ANNIE
          I got a little confused though. The ranch 
          Ellen was talking about -- that's not this 
          one?

     Diane is sorting silverware throughout the following:

                      DIANE
          No. See, Frank and Tom were raised near 
          the Clark's Fork River, right between the 
          Pryor and Beartooth Mountains. Beautiful 
          piece of land. But they had this uncle 
          Ned -- useless man, never interested in 
          ranching. And when the grandparents died, 
          he left for the city and sent word 
          through lawyers he wanted his claim to 
          the land so he could sell it. Three years 
          of legation broke their father. Frank took 
          it all in stride, but Tom... Tom loved that 
          land. I don't think he ever got over it -- 
          His home being sold out from under him. 
          Seeing his father like that. Once he and 
          Frank got their folks set up in a new 
          place, Tom left... went off. We didn't see 
          him for years...

     Annie is intrigued by what she's learning about Tom. 
     Something outside the window catches her eyes. She watches:

     POV;
     
     Tom and Frank, on either side to Ellen, are escorting her to 
     a car that will drive her home.

     EXT. RANCH HOUSE - NIGHT

     Annie wanders out, passing Grace and Joe on her way out. The two 
     are sitting in a glider. As Annie exits O.C., we hear them;

                      GRACE
          Why do you always wear that hat?

                      JOE
          Because it fits my head. You want to 
          try it on?

     Grace doesn't know if she should.

     Annie continues towards Tom who's sitting in a rocker playing 
     with the twins.

                      TWINS
          Show us again! Come on! One more time! 
          It's my turn now!

                      TOM
          All right, al right. Hold out your 
          finger.

     Annie takes a seat nearby and watches as Tom holds out the 
     first finger of his right hand. The Twins holds out his. Tom 
     splits his focus between Annie and the Twins as he takes a 
     small piece of rope out of his back pocket. He ties the ends 
     together making a loop. He puts the loop over the Twin's 
     finger. And holding the other end of the loop taut with his 
     left hand, he draws one side of the cord over the other with 
     the middle finger of his right hand. Then he rolls his hand 
     over so it's under the loop, and back over it again, so that 
     his finger is tip to tip with the Twin's. The loop seemingly 
     knotted around their touching fingertips, and can only be 
     removed if their touch is broken.

                      TOM
          The loop's knotted, right.
               (Twins nod)
          Looks like the only way to take it 
          off, is if we break our touch...
               (they nod)
          Watch now...

     Annie and the Twins look down at the touching fingers as Tom 
     gently pulls the rope away, revealing they are still knotted, 
     and without even breaking their touch...

                      TWINS
          Again! Again. One more time!

                      TOM
          Oh, no. No, no. I only fall for that 
          once. Go inside now before your mother 
          starts hunting you down. Go on.

     The Twins exit. Annie and Tom make eye contact.

                      TOM
               (smiles, relaxes back)
          So how was your first and last day of 
          branding?

                      ANNIE
          Don't be so sure it's my last. There 
          are a few people back home I'd like 
          to put under a red hot iron.

     Tom looks at her with a sly expression, and notices she's 
     shivering.

                      TOM
          You got too much sun today... 
          Here...

     He takes his jacket and puts it around her shoulders.

                      ANNIE
          Thank you.

     He sits back down. Annie crosses her arms over her chest, 
     looks around, unconsciously swinging her foot. Tom watches 
     her leg. Annie notices him watching;

                      ANNIE
          What?

                      TOM
          You ever just stand still for a 
          minute?

                      ANNIE
          You stand still too long in New York 
          you get hit by a bicycle messenger.
               (smiles wryly)
          You know, sometimes, I get the feeling, 
          Mr. Booker, that you're laughing at me. 
          Why is that?

     Tom shrugs. Annie waits a beat, then:

                      ANNIE
          That's your cue to say you're not 
          laughing at me.

                      TOM
          Oh, I see, you write both sides of the 
          conversation?

                      ANNIE
          It's a man's world, Mr. Booker. Most 
          women have to.

                      TOM
          Well, maybe I am laughing a bit... I 
          just thought, as long as you're here, 
          it would be nice for you to relax into 
          the place a little.

                      ANNIE
               (understanding)
          Well... It's beautiful country, I'll give 
          you that. And I could see having some 
          kind of vacation place. Retreat. But I 
          don't know how you do it full time. Don't 
          you miss the rest of the world?

                      TOM
          What's that to miss?

                      ANNIE
          Ha... if you've never lived in a city 
          with museums, theater, music, restaurants, 
          uh... god, a million things, then it's 
          something I can't explain.

                      TOM
               (thinks, teasing a bit)
          Does Chicago count?

                      ANNIE
               (surprised)
          You lived in Chicago?

                      TOM
          When I was first married.

                      ANNIE
               (stunned)
          You were married to a woman in 
          Chicago?

     Tom likes disturbing her picture of him as the predictable 
     cowboy. He smiles;

                      TOM
          I once heard Itzhak Perlman guest star 
          with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. 
          He played Rachmaninov's Vocalize Opus 34. 
          No. 14. It was one of the most beautiful 
          pieces of music I ever heard. I actually 
          forgot where I was for a time.
               (Annie is floored)
          You seem surprised?

                      ANNIE
               (not wanting to insult)
          Well, I, uh... you didn't...

                      TOM
          Just who's been laughing at who here?

     Tom says this with a wry smile. Annie returns with a smile -- 
     as an understanding is reached between them: they've both 
     stereotyped the other. They are both pleased -- and attracted -- 
     by what they don't know.

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

     Grace is fast asleep, exhausted. She does not stir when the 
     phone rings.

     Annie picks up from her own bed, awakened, still dressed in 
     her branding clothes, having just passed out on the bed.

                      ANNIE
          Hello?

     INT. CENTRAL PARK WENT APARTMENT - NIGHT

     INTERCUT: Robert, alone, in the vast apartment.

                      ROBERT
          I thought you guys were going to call 
          me.

                      ANNIE
          Oh, Robert, I'm sorry. We were so tired 
          from the branding. Grace barely made it 
          to her bed and I didn't have the energy 
          to take my clothes off.

                      ROBERT
          Oh well... branding will do that to you.

                      ANNIE
          Everything all right.

                      ROBERT
          Huh-huh. You?

                      ANNIE
          Fine. Actually, today was a good day. 
          You should have seen her.

                      ROBERT
          I wish I did.

     The sound of self-pity was so obvious for both of them, so 
     Robert quickly re-groups, resorting to something he knows is 
     important to her;

                      ROBERT
          Well, uh the real reason I called, 
          actually, was to tell you I saw Lucy 
          at Jo-Jo's tonight and she seems very 
          worried.

                      ANNIE
          About what?

                      ROBERT
          Apparently, Gottschalk's been seen around 
          town lunching with some very prominent 
          magazine editors. Lucy said she tried to 
          call you, but no one answered so she faxed 
          you the list of names. She said one of 
          them have contracts up fairly soon.

                      ANNIE
          Oh. I didn't look at my faxes today. We 
          left before sunrise.

                      ROBERT
          Honey, I hope you're not endangering 
          your position. Listen, if you need to 
          come back and you want me to come take 
          over, for a while, I'll work it out. I 
          mean, the firm's got other lawyers, but 
          the magazine's got only one of you.

     After a day of hard work and simple pleasures, Annie begins to 
     succumb to old anxieties and pressures.

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

     Annie is awake reading the faxes Lucy sent. One after other. 
     As she flips through them, one falls to the floor near the bed.

     She gets down on all fours to retrieve and sees something 
     under the bed. AN OLD, BATTERED CELLO CASE. She pulls it out 
     to find the initials R.B. carved on the top. She opens it to 
     find papers, receipts, bills -- all from Tom's married life.

     EXT. THE DOUBLE DIVIDE - EARLY MORNING

     Tom rides a young colt along the creek. He hears footsteps. 
     He turns and sees Annie running along the creek on the other 
     side. He stops to watch. When his horse SNORTS, Annie looks 
     up to see him. She stops. He tips his hat to her.

                      ANNIE
          I've decided it's impossible to 
          properly say hello in this place 
          without a hat.

                      TOM
          A jogger, huh?

                      ANNIE
          I don't jog, Mr. Booker. I run.

                      TOM
          Lucky for you. The grizzlies around 
          here only go for joggers.

                      ANNIE
          If I can survive rush hour, I figure I 
          can handle grizzlies...

                      TOM
               (smiles)
          You sleeping all right in that house?

                      ANNIE
          I don't sleep all right anywhere. But 
          the house is fine.

     Tom walks his horse across the creek to her, comfortable in 
     the silence. Annie moves about, uncomfortable in the waiting.

                      ANNIE
          Who's R.B.?

     Tom is finding Annie's blunt curiosity more endearing.

                      ANNIE
          I found this old cello case filled with 
          bills and receipts.

                      TOM
          Sorry about that. I thought everything 
          got cleared out. R.B. is my wife... 
          ex-wife... Rachel. We used to live in 
          that house 
          together.

                      ANNIE
          I thought you lived in Chicago?

                      TOM
          I thought you were an editor, not a 
          reporter?

     Annie smiles and nods, realizing she's asking too many questions. 
     She tries to casually reach out to touch the horse's head, but 
     it's too abrupt and the horse tosses his head away, taking a 
     couple of steps back. Annie is embarrassed.

                      ANNIE
          I have a way with animals.

                      TOM
          It's all right. He's young. Just hold 
          out your hand a little lower so he can 
          get the smell of you.

                      ANNIE
          Oh yes. I forgot.

     She does and the horse sniffs at her hand.

                      ANNIE
          He's beautiful.

                      TOM
          Why don't you ride anymore? Grace told 
          me you used to ride when she was 
          younger.

                      ANNIE
          She did?

     Annie is somewhat moved by her daughter telling him that.

                      ANNIE
          I don't know, really. No time mostly.

     A cold wind blows. She folds her arms across her breasts.

                      ANNIE
          I thought it was supposed to be spring.

     Tom can't help but notice her nipples are hard from the cold. 
     He looks away. She laughs.

                      ANNIE
          Are you shy, Mr. Booker?

                      TOM
          Just polite. Well, maybe you'd like 
          to try riding again, some time before 
          you go home.

     Annie is struck by the words "before you go home." Tom ambles 
     off on his horse.

                      TOM
          Enjoy the day.

                      ANNIE
          You too.

     Annie steps across the rocks at the ford, crossing the creek. 
     Her foot slips, one of her shoes goes into the water.

                      ANNIE
          Shit.

                      TOM
          Need a lift?

                      ANNIE
          I can handle it!

     She crosses the creek. She turns, giving him a small wave. He 
     touches his hat. She runs off. Tom watches her go, head down, 
     concentrating...

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - DAY

     A tense Annie is having a difficult phone with DAVID GOTTSCHALK;

                      ANNIE
          ... David, we've been behind a day or 
          two before. But Lucy just Fedexed me all 
          the material and it'll be approved by 
          the end of the day.

                      DAVID GOTTSCHALL (V.O.)
          If nothing goes wrong. If the faxes don't 
          go down. If the phone lines are opened. 
          I can't have this magazine hitting the 
          streets by the skin of its ass, Annie.

     During David's lines, Diane has entered, carrying fresh towels 
     -- she crosses into the bathroom.

                      ANNIE
          Oh, come on! This is such bullshit! The 
          work is getting done, David. Lucky keeps 
          me on top of everything.

                      DAVID GOTTSCHALK (V.O.)
          Lucy isn't you. We're losing something 
          without you being here. Now, I know this 
          is a rough time for you, but I think we 
          should make another arrangement.

     Without Annie's awareness, Diane re-enters and takes her time 
     leaving, so she can take in all of Annie's things; her 
     business "office," books, etc...

                      ANNIE
          What the hell does that mean? How much 
          more do I have to do to prove how 
          important this magazine is to me?

                      DAVID GOTTSCHALK (V.O.)
          If this magazine is so important to you 
          Annie, why are you in Montana?

     Diane can't help but notice a slight vulnerability in Annie.

                      DAVID GOTTSCHALK (V.O.)
          Look, this is what we're going to do. 
          Finish up this issue. I'll set up a 
          conference call in a few weeks. Just 
          you, me and your lawyer and we'll 
          just work this out so that everyone 
          will be taken care of. Fair enough?

     Annie is now aware of Diane's presence and chooses to play it 
     cool. It's not the moment.

                      ANNIE
          Uh, yes... Sure, David.

                      DAVID GOTTSCHALK (V.O.)
          All right. Speak to you then.

     He hangs up. Annie forces a smile to Diane.

                      ANNIE
          Thank you. You're all doing too much.

                      DIANE
          Oh, it's... I wanted to tell you that, 
          if you'd like, you being so busy, I 
          could take Grace to her therapy 
          exercises for you. I have to go in 
          once a week for shopping anyway.

     Annie doesn't know whether or not to accept.

                      ANNIE
          Oh... Well... thank you very much. I 
          don't --

     Before she finishes her line, the Phone Rings again.

                      ANNIE
          Sorry.
               (to phone)
          Hello? Hi, yeah, I just spoke to him. 
          Oh, you know David, Mr. Strong Arm...

     Diane feels out of place and exits. Annie doesn't notice 
     until she hears the door close. She pushes back her hair and 
     takes a deep breath. She looks out through the side window 
     and sees:

     Grace and Joe doing chores. Grace looks involved and not at 
     all self-conscious. A moment of gratitude and calm for Annie.

     EXT. THE DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

     Pilgrim bursts out of a chute and into the riding arena. He 
     runs to the far end and abruptly stops. Tom is holding the 
     orange flagstick, and coiled rope, coming through a gate 
     into the arena, crossing to the middle of the ring. Something 
     in his demeanor tells us that fun and game are over.

     Pilgrim and Tom stand there, motionless, eyeing each other. 
     Pilgrim snorts and takes a few, small steps backward. Tom 
     takes a beat, then starts slowly towards Pilgrim, lifting the 
     flag and "cracking" it. At the sound, Pilgrim whirls away from 
     him and runs, around the arena. He starts to slow, looking at 
     Tom. Again, Tom cracks the flag and Pilgrim runs, round and 
     round the arena... like a ringmaster, Tom keeps Pilgrim 
     moving, cracking the flag.

     Something about Tom's demeanor tells us it isn't going well.

     EXT. THE RANCH - DAY

     Tom, carrying a saddle, comes around the side of the barn. 
     Through the slats, he sees Grace working in the barn, 
     watering a horse. She has stopped and is looking through the 
     cracks of Pilgrim's stall at him. She turns and sees Tom 
     through the slats. She goes back to work as Tom comes to the 
     barn door.

                      TOM
          Come and take a ride with me.

     EXT. THE RANCH - DAY

     They walk towards his pick-up truck.

                      TOM
          Can you drive?

                      GRACE
          Drive? I'm not old enough yet.

                      TOM
          It's never too soon to start.

     He enters the passenger side.

                      GRACE
          I can't...

                      TOM
          I don't have all day.

     She hesitates and gets into the truck.

     INT. PICK-UP TRUCK - DAY

     Grace doesn't know what to do.

                      TOM
          Put the key in and turn it.
               (Grace obeys)
          The right pedal is gas, the other 
          one's the brake.

                      GRACE
          I don't know if I can with my leg.

                      TOM
          Well, there's only one way to find out.
                 (puts truck in gear)
          Give it a little gas.

     She awkwardly puts her prosthetic foot on the gas pedal. Too 
     much. It lurches forward. She takes her foot off.

                      TOM
          Well, we know you can. Now you just 
          got to feel how much. Try it again.

     She does. They slowly, very slowly, move along the dirt road.

                      TOM
          Nice, real nice. There's a little 
          road down at the end here, turn onto 
          it.

     Grace badly oversteers, but makes the turn. She drives along 
     the road, across a pasture, heading toward distant mountains.

                      TOM
          Just follow this. Nothing to it. I'm 
          going to shut my eyes here for a 
          little while. Just keep going till 
          you run out of road.

                      GRACE
               (afraid)
          I don't know if I can.

                      TOM
          Not a question of if you can -- you 
          are. Just keep your eyes on the road 
          and your foot on the pedal and the 
          rest will take care of yourself.

     Folding his arms over his chest, shutting his eyes, Tom 
     relaxes back. Grace locks her hand on the steering wheel and 
     her eyes straight ahead...

     EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

     The truck is parked at the foot of a mountain. Grace, very 
     pleased with herself, sits beside Tom on the cab's roof, 
     looking around them at the great Montana. After a beat;

                      TOM
          Where did you get Pilgrim from?

                      GRACE
          We bought him in Kentucky. My mother 
          and I took a trip down there to see 
          him.

                      TOM
          That must have been pretty special.

     Grace nods. It is a pleasant memory. He motions for her to be 
     quiet. An old ELK with a prodigious rack of antlers, has come 
     down out of the mountains. Seeing them, he stops in his 
     tracks, dead still. They watch each other. Then the elk turns 
     and runs back up into the mountains. Tom smiles at Grace who 
     smiles back -- partly because of the elk, partly because she's 
     alone with Tom.

                      GRACE
          Are you afraid of anything?

                      TOM
               (thinks)
          Getting old. Not being of much use, 
          I guess.
               (beat)
          What went on out there, Grace? With 
          Pilgrim?

     Grace doesn't say anything. Tom nods then;

                      TOM
          You see, Grace, I've got a problem. 
          When I'm working with a horse, I like 
          to know its history. Now, most times, 
          the horse can tell you pretty much the 
          whole story, but sometimes he can be 
          so messed up in his head that you need 
          more to go on. You need to know exactly 
          what went wrong. Often times, it's the 
          obvious thing, but something that went 
          wrong just before that, maybe even some 
          little thing...

     Grace is quiet. She doesn't want to think about that.

                      TOM
          It's like if I'm driving and run into 
          a tree. When somebody asks me, "Well, 
          what happened?", I don't say, "Well, 
          I plowed into a tree." I'd say, "The 
          sun was in my eyes." or "I skidded." or 
          "I took my mind off the road for a 
          second." See what I mean?
               (Grace nods)
          I don't know how you feel about talking 
          about it and I can understand you might 
          not want to. But if I'm going to figure 
          out what's going on in his head, it'd 
          sure help if I knew exactly what 
          happened that day.

     Grace looks away. Tom smiles and gently puts his arm around 
     her shoulders, which has a soothing effect on Grace -- making 
     her feel safe...

                      TOM
          Not today -- whenever you feel like it. 
          I leave it up to you.

     Grace looks into Tom's eyes, wanting so much to unburden herself 
     to him and have him make everything all right. She nods.

     EXT. RANCH HOUSE - LATE AT NIGHT

     Tom is making his way to the house at the end of the day, when 
     he stops and looks over to the Creek house --

     POV -- the lights are on. And he can see Annie, exhausted... 
     approving pages, talking on the phone and faxing all 
     simultaneously.

     He gets an idea.

     EXT. CREEK HOUSE - MORNING

     Annie sits on the porch of the creek house, with a guilt over 
     herself, sipping coffee and deep in thought. She looks up to 
     see:

     Tom riding towards the house on his horse, leading another 
     horse behind him. He looks to her and smiles.

                      ANNIE
               (murmurs)
          Oh-oh.

     Tom reaches the house as Annie rises.

                      ANNIE
          The answer's no.

                      TOM
          You haven't heard the question yet. Truth 
          is, you'd be doing me a favor. I got all 
          these eager young colts need riding and 
          poor old Rimrock here is feeling kind of 
          left out...

                      ANNIE
          Poor thing.

                      TOM
          He'd be grateful, he'd take real good 
          care with you.

                      ANNIE
          Is this how you're going to make me pay 
          my phone bill?

                      TOM
          No, ma'am, I'm afraid that's extra.

     She gives him a crooked smile.

     EXT. THE RANCH, PASTURE - DAY

     Annie, in Levis and a jacket, rides Rimrock beside Tom across 
     the pasture. We overhear them in the midst of talking.

                      TOM
          Relax our center... It's just sitting 
          in a bucket.

                      ANNIE
          Yeah, it's been a while, but I... I 
          remember the basic ideas...

                      TOM
          OK. I'll stop talking then.

     He rides a few steps ahead as Annie realizes she doesn't 
     remember. She just went into automatic "I don't have to be 
     told anything" mode.

                      ANNIE
          Actually, I never rode Western. I'm 
          sorry. Go ahead.

                      TOM
          Well, he don't know that. Just sit the 
          horse.
               (watches her ride)
          Good... You have a nice seat.

                      ANNIE
          Thanks.

                      TOM
          Feel good?

                      ANNIE
          Yeah.

                      TOM
          You look all right. You want to pick 
          it up a little?

                      ANNIE
          OK.

     Tom urges his horse into a center. Annie canters alongside.

                      TOM
          Watch your reins, he'll go with you, 
          give him some room, let him do the 
          work. Relax, don't grab him with 
          your thighs, just so long as he can 
          feel your body.

     Annie responds to every suggestion without resistance. And 
     she experiences this sense of pleasure -- this great animal 
     beneath her, the physicality and the surrender of letting 
     someone else lead...

                      TOM
          You want to let it go some more?

     She begins to let herself go, losing herself in the experience. 
     She just nods... Tom breaks into a full gallop... Annie follows 
     suit... She lets everything go -- her job, her marriage, 
     motherhood, guilt, anxiety... all of it. Her only focus is the 
     horse beneath her, and the man on the horse leading her...

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

     They ride along the creek, crossing at a ford. They ride up 
     towards the mountains.

                                LAP DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DAY

     They ride through a narrow pass with sheer rock walls, riding 
     by a waterfall...

                               LAP DISSOLVE TO:

     They ride across a meadow, cattle stepping lazily aside to 
     let them pass. And as they ride alongside each other, 
     appreciating the silence...

                               LAP DISSOLVE TO:

     They ride up along a sloping ridge covered with pine trees. 
     They come to the rim of a high bluff. They stop. They look 
     out at the twin valleys that gave the ranch its name. And 
     they can just see the old CREEK HOUSE hidden in the shade of 
     some trees along the creek...

     Tom looks over at Annie, who is looking out over this 
     beautiful vista.

                      ANNIE
          It's a whole other world you have 
          going on here. It just goes along, 
          doing what it has to. And you're a 
          part of it, you just wake up and, 
          and there you are... And everything 
          that seems like life or death some 
          place else -- doesn't affect any of 
          this one bit.

     Tom is impressed by her feelings. He sees her saddle cinch 
     needs fixing and gets off his horse.

                      TOM
          Lift your leg.

     Annie complies once she realizes what he's doing.

                      ANNIE
          How long did you live here with your 
          wife?

                      TOM
          Five years. My son was born here.

                      ANNIE
               (opens her eyes)
          Son?

                      TOM
          Yeah. I haven't seen him in a while. He 
          used to come to the ranch over summers, 
          but then he started having friends and 
          was going off to college, so... Good boy. 
          Hal. Lives in New York near his mom.

                      ANNIE
          How did you meet her?

                      TOM
          College. In Illinois. She was playing 
          the cello. I hadn't heard cello music 
          growing up. She had the reddest hair, 
          the bluest eyes. When she played, it 
          was...

     Tom can't find a beautiful enough word. But Annie understands.

                      TOM
          She was the most beautiful thing I'd 
          ever seen.

     Annie sees Tom as if with new eyes -- his love for this woman 
     he lost.

                      ANNIE
          Why didn't it work out?

                      TOM
          She was never really happy here. She did 
          the best she could.

     Annie looks at him and for the first time senses a kinship -- 
     an understanding they both have of being torn between two 
     worlds... a desire for home...

                      TOM
          Grace told me you have a country house 
          in Connecticut. Sounds like a beautiful 
          place.

                      ANNIE
          It is. It's lovely.

                      TOM
          Ever think of moving there full time?

                      ANNIE
          We did at one point. When we thought 
          we'd have more children. And we after 
          tried. We tried everything, but... 
          wasn't meant to be.

     There is an awkward silent beat for a moment. Annie is 
     momentarily self-conscious. Tom helps by speaking of himself;

                      TOM
          I hear that! See, I knew she was never 
          going to be a ranchest, but I wanted 
          to try -- I thought maybe she'd give 
          music lessons to the kids in town or at 
          the school, maybe even recitals. My son 
          would grow up here. Maybe have one or 
          two more. I'd teach 'em what I could. 
          They'd play with my brother's kids. All 
          grow up together. And even if they all 
          decided to go out into the world, they'd 
          always know where home was -- cause we'd 
          keep it for 'em...

                      ANNIE
          That's very important to you, isn't it? 
          Home.

                      TOM
          Yeah, I think it is. And I don't mean 
          everybody's got to be married, have kids
          -- It's more like, knowing where you're 
          from, where you belong, what feeds you, 
          where you can go no matter what happens... 
          Knowing what you're supposed to be doing 
          while you're here.

                      ANNIE
          How did you find out all that?

     Tom looks right into her eyes and confesses without a shred 
     of self-consciousness.

                      TOM
          I got lost.

     They smiles.

     EXT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

     The world is in silhouette. Off in the distance, we see Tom 
     standing by his horse, offering his hand to Annie, helping 
     her off. There's an awkward moment, neither of them wanting 
     the day, or the moment, to end.

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

     Grace is standing by the window, looking out at them. Their 
     movements indicate an intimacy that upsets her.

     EXT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

     After a beat;

     Tom gets back on his colt. He takes Rimrock's reins and leads 
     him off. Annie stops for a moment, watching him ride away...

     She watches her mother walk towards the house;

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - MOMENT'S LATER

     Grace watches her mother stand there a moment, then turn and 
     walk towards the house. Grace moves away from the window, 
     her emotions churning -- jealousy, anger -- and enters her 
     bedroom, shutting the door.

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. THE PASTURE - EARLY MORNING

     Joe, hat tipped low, is riding his horse, leading some young 
     horses, exercising them in the morning pasture. He sees Grace, 
     walking with her cane, coming across the pasture.

                      JOE
               (shy)
          Hi...

     She stops. After a beat;

                      GRACE
          Would you let me ride your horse?

                      JOE
               (hesitates)
          Have you talked to Tom about it?

                      GRACE
          Of course I have.

                      JOE
               (beat, then:)
          I don't know... You sure Tom said it's 
          all right?

     She nods. He hesitates.

                      GRACE
          Are you going to give me a hand or 
          aren't you?

     He gets off his horse and holds it. She puts down her cane, 
     then puts her hand on the saddle horn. She puts her 
     prosthetic leg into a stirrup. Frightened, she starts to 
     shake;

                      JOE
          You sure?

     Angry, determined, Grace tries to swing her leg onto the 
     horse. She can't do it. Tears of frustration on her face. She 
     tries again. She manages to pull herself halfway on, her 
     prosthetic leg buckles and she falls. Frightened, Joe runs to 
     her.

                      JOE
          You okay?

     She gasps to catch her breath. He reaches to help her up. She 
     pulls her hand away. Embarrassed, she "runs" off. Joe remains 
     still. He hears a little VOICES. He turns and sees the TWINS 
     having been watching the whole thing from a small hill. As 
     they run off, he yells, threateningly.

                      JOE
          You better not say anything!!!

     EXT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

     We follow Joe running towards the creek house, fastening a 
     good shirt. He's dressed and cleaned for dinner. He's late.

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

     Annie is in the midst of making a spaghetti dinner. She's a 
     little frazzled but she's on top of it. Grace enters wearing 
     a lovely dress -- it is the first time we have seen her in a 
     dress. Annie hears her enter before she sees her, asking;

                      ANNIE
          Honey, would you see if anybody 
          wants --

     Annie notices Grace standing there, in her dress. She stops.

                      ANNIE
          You look really pretty.

     Grace is a little self-conscious but grateful. She begins 
     taking forks out of her dress pocket.

                      GRACE
          I thought there were too many forks 
          on the table.

                      ANNIE
          Well, one was for salad...

                      GRACE
          Mom, they don't mind eating with one 
          fork.

                      ANNIE
               (thinks, then;)
          You're right. Good.

     Grace puts them away.

                      ANNIE
          Does anybody out there want 
          something to drink?

                      GRACE
          I'll take care of it.

                      ANNIE
          Thanks, honey.

     Grace nods and exits to the living room.

     LIVING ROOM:

     The room is silent because every Booker is READING A 
     DIFFERENT COPY OF ANNIE'S MAGAZINE. Frank covertly glimpses 
     at the scantily-clad models... The Twins sharing a magazine, 
     doing the same thing as their father, but keeping an eye out 
     for mom... Diane is looking at pictorial exposes on the kind 
     of lives she only hears about on audio tapes...

     Tom sits off to the side, amused by the sight.

     Grace enters as Joe enters. They nod across the room to each 
     other with a little smile.

                      GRACE
          Would anyone like something to drink?

     We hear a CRASH in the kitchen, then:

                      ANNIE (O.S.)
          SHIT!

     Everybody looks up for a minute. The Twins giggle. Diane gives 
     them a dirty look.

                      TOM
          I'll give your mom a hand.

     Diane watches him enter the kitchen, then returns to her 
     magazine.

     INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

     Annie has dropped a hot pot into the sink, after pouring the 
     tomato out of it, and into a terrine.

                      TOM
          Everything under control?

                      ANNIE
               (laughs)
          Not really. I'd forgotten how long 
          it's been since I've done this. And 
          I couldn't get any Parmesan cheese.

                      TOM
          Just make yourself comfortable.

                      ANNIE
          I am comfortable.

                      TOM
          Ha, ha... all right, well, uh I guess 
          you can bring out the pasta.

     She undoes her apron and crosses towards the bowl. Tom's eyes 
     never leave her. It's the first time he's seen her in her 
     dress, sans apron. As she lifts the bowl to hand to him, she 
     realizes he's been looking at her. There's a silent moment, 
     then;

                      ANNIE
          You missed a button.

                      TOM
          Huh?

     She looks for it. Tom crosses to her and buttons it, then 
     takes the bowl.

                      ANNIE
          Thank you.

     They're quiet for a beat as they exchange a look. Suddenly, 
     Grace enters -- she clearly doesn't like the two of them being 
     alone, Annie quickly covers;

                      ANNIE
          Oh, good, Grace, would you bring in 
          the bread... I'll get the salad and 
          then we're all set.

     Tom has already exited by the time Annie finishes, and Grace 
     grabs the bread basket.

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT

     We parachute into the middle of the meal. The spaghetti is a 
     hit... We cut to different conversations and reactions around 
     the table.

     Frank is in the middle of saying;

                      FRANK
          It'd be a whole lot easier to pay 
          the feed end of the month...

                      TOM
          I don't think Warren would go for that.

     Grace is talking to Joe and the Twins.

                      GRACE
          ... like, for instance, you can go on 
          the Internet and access this thing 
          called The Visible Man -- who was this 
          murderer they caught in Texas that was 
          executed and donated his body to 
          science and you can call him up on the 
          screen and dissect him, like in Three-D...

     Grace eats as she talks. Joe and the Twins are fascinated.

     Annie asks Tom, Frank and Diane;

                      ANNIE
          Well, did you ever think about hiring 
          a business manager?

                      FRANK
          We have a business manager. The best 
          around.

                      DIANE
          Ha...

                      TOM
          Diane takes care of the books. I don't 
          know how, but at the end of every 
          month, everything adds up to the penny.

                      DIANE
          Ain't brain surgery.

                      ANNIE
          It's pretty impressive. Where I come 
          from, you'd be a gold mine.

     Diane doesn't know how to accept that, but inside she's 
     bursting with pride. She focuses on the Twins who fight;

                      TWINS
          This is MY fork. That's YOUR fork, ya 
          idiot!

                      DIANE
          Hey. You stop that kind of talk at the 
          table.

                      FRANK
          I'll have another round of that 
          spaghetti if may?

                      ANNIE
          Absolutely. I made enough for an army.

                      DIANE
          I uh... I like the sauce very much. Maybe 
          I get the recipe.

     Annie is so pleased and is about to reply, but Grace, noticing 
     Tom smiling at Annie:

                      GRACE
          It's from a jar.

     There's an odd silence as a deflated Annie serves Frank.

                      FRANK
          Thank you.

     Finally, Diane saves it.

                      DIANE
          Well, I tried jar sauce once -- 
          wasn't this good. Ya gotta know 
          which brand to buy. I'd like to 
          get the name of this one.

     Annie is grateful. Grace feels foolish.

                      TWIN (SCOTT)
          Can we see the dead body on the 
          screen?

                      DIANE
          What?

                      GRACE
          It's just my computer.

                      DIANE
          Oh, I don't --

                      ANNIE
          It's okay. Grace, show them. I'm going 
          to put the coffee on. I made an apple 
          tart for dessert.

     The Twins excitedly move to the computer. Joe waits for Grace.

                      DIANE
          I'll help you with the coffee.

                      ANNIE
          Well... I know I should reject that 
          offer, but I'm not going to.

                      DIANE
               (jovial)
          No reason you should, no reason you 
          should.

     They exit into the kitchen. Frank continues eating.

     Tom looks around -- Grace showing the boys the computer. Annie 
     and Diane in the kitchen. For a second, we see Tom realize an 
     image of the life he once thought he could.

     INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

     As Diane and Annie prepare coffee and dessert;

                      DIANE
          I was looking in one of your magazines 
          and saw that picture of the couple 
          getting married at the Pyramids. Were 
          you ever in Egypt?

                      ANNIE
          I was there for that shot, actually.

                      DIANE
          What was it like?

                      ANNIE
          Oh, God -- I think it was the fourth 
          or fifth time I'd been there, so all 
          I remember was the heat and how 
          incompetent the photographer was...

     She laughs as she directs this last line to Diane, who just 
     smiles. And Annie realizes that's not what she meant at all. 
     This woman is starving for glimpses into this other life.

                      ANNIE
          But, uh, Egypt is, well, it's like 
          nothing else. It's like going back in 
          time.
               (Diane listens)
          I remember as a kid trying to imagine 
          what a kid my age, centuries ago, 
          walking over that same ground, was 
          wondering about or, if they had the 
          same problems as me... and I felt, 
          connected to... to time itself, almost. 
          Ha, I never realized how hard it was 
          to describe.

                      DIANE
          I'd love to go there one time...

                      ANNIE
          You and Frank ever take a vacation?

                      DIANE
          Soon. We're going to Branson, Missouri 
          to see my cousin Emma married. Frank 
          loves in there.

     Annie can sense the disappointment in her voice, and at the 
     same time, the comfortable resignation.

     Suddenly, from inside, they hear LOUD OVERLAPPING VOICES as 
     the children fight.

                      TWIN (SCOTT)
          IT WAS MY TURN!

                      JOE
          YA JUST HAD A TURN. IT WAS NOT.

                      TWIN (SCOTT)
          WAS SO!

     LIVING ROOM:

     Diane and Annie enter to find Joe and Scott fighting, as Tom 
     tries to break them up...

                      TOM
          Boys! Settle down!

                      TWIN (SCOTT)
          You never let me have a turn!

                      JOE
          Don't be such a baby!

                      TWIN (SCOTT)
          You just showing off for her!

                      JOE
          You shut up, stupid!

                      TWIN (SCOTT)
          You're the one who's stupid -- letting 
          her go and fall off your horse!!

     Everyone goes quiet, except for the computer screen.

                      JOE
          You little shit!

                      DIANE
          JOE!

                      TWIN (SCOTT)
          I saw 'em. In the pasture. Her trying to 
          get on Gonzo! I saw 'em.

                      ANNIE
          What does he mean?

                      GRACE
          Nothing.

                      ANNIE
          Did you go riding?

                      JOE
          Little shit!

     Joe lunges for Scott and the two start rolling in a fight. 
     Frank and Tom work to pull them apart as Diane yells.

                      DIANE
          Annie, I'm so sorry, but they're just 
          tired. We'll have dessert another time. 
          Frank, get them out of here.
               (to other Twin)
          Come on. Say good night and thank 
          you...

     Voices everywhere. Yelling. "Thank you's!!" During which, 
     Grace quickly turns and exits. Annie eyes follow her out of 
     the room, but with her guests and the chaos, she doesn't know 
     whether or not to leave.

                      FRANK
          Dinner was delicious. Thank you.
               (to Twins)
          Say thank you!!

     Diane and Frank usher the kids out. Tom holds onto Joe until 
     they're gone, then lets him go.

                      JOE
          Sorry, ma'am, I thank you for dinner. 
          It was very good.

                      ANNIE
          Did Grace try to ride, Joe?

                      JOE
               (hesitates)
          I expect you should talk to Grace about 
          that, ma'am. And if I did anything 
          wrong, then I am sorry.

     Ever the gentlemen, Joe exits. Annie looks to Tom. He's about 
     to leave, when he stops and says:

                      TOM
          Don't let her turn you away.

     Tom exits.

     Annie stands and faces Grace's closed door. Slowly, she 
     lowers herself to her knees and sits on them, thinking... 
     reminiscent of Tom, waiting for his moment with Pilgrim, in 
     the field.

     INT. CREEK HOUSE, GRACE'S ROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

     We don't know how long Annie waited, but she knocks gently, 
     then enters to find Grace, in her nightgown, on her bed, with 
     the night stand light on. Her prosthesis is against the wall.

                      ANNIE
          Grace? Is everything all right?
               (no answer)
          Can we talk?

                      GRACE
          About what?

                      ANNIE
          Well...
               (nervous)
          So you tried riding again?

                      GRACE
               (snotty)
          Yeah. Does that mean I'm cured?!

                      ANNIE
          Honey, nobody's trying to cure you --

                      GRACE
          ... You worried everything all right 
          now and we'll have to go home?

                      ANNIE
          What are you talking about?

                      GRACE
          You... not wanting to go home because 
          you hate daddy so much.

                      ANNIE
          Grace, I don't hate your father.

                      GRACE
          I can't remember the last time you 
          made him dinner.

                      ANNIE
          I was just trying to say thank you to 
          Diane and Frank and --

                      GRACE
          Tom?

     Annie sits by the bed, Grace moves away a little.

                      ANNIE
          Look, I just wanted to say, I think 
          it's great you're riding again. 
          And... and I think I know why you, 
          you needed to do it alone... without 
          anyone knowing...

                      GRACE
          Yeah, you know everything!!

                      ANNIE
          STOP IT! Why can't I talk to you!!

                      GRACE
          NO, YOU STOP IT! Stop pretending like 
          you care! Like this really isn't about 
          you and Tom.

                      ANNIE
               (angry)
          WHAT?! How can you --
               (at a loss)
          I'm sorry if my friendship with Tom 
          bothers you so much, but I happen to 
          value having someone to talk to, 
          especially when my own daughter 
          ignores me night and day because no 
          matter what I say, it's wrong and no 
          matter what I do, it's wrong... I'm 
          sorry I'm such a disappointment to 
          you.

                      GRACE
          Well, now you know what it feels like.

     Beat.

                      ANNIE
          I don't deserve that. I have never 
          looked at you as a disappointment. If 
          I'm on your back to do better, if I 
          push you to try harder it's because 
          I want you to be the best you can be.

                      GRACE
          FOR YOU! Because I'm your daughter 
          which means you're the best mother! 
          Isn't that what you're always talking 
          about in interviews -- having it all, 
          the great career, the great family... 
          Proving everybody wrong. Wanting 
          everybody to think you're this perfect 
          woman!

     Beat. They're both exhausted.

                      ANNIE
          Listen, if... if there's a part of you 
          as parent that... that takes pride in 
          your child -- that, you can look at 
          them and see something you've 
          accomplished as well... if that's wrong, 
          then I'm sorry.
               (no answer)
          But it wasn't my intention. I don't push 
          for me. I do it for you... So you don't 
          waste half your life feeling like you 
          don't know where you belong.

                      GRACE
          Yeah, well, you've done a great job.

     Beat. Annie feels deeply hurt.

                      ANNIE
          Well, then I do apologize... But what 
          I'm most sorry for is turning you 
          into a spoiled brat who can only 
          think about what she's feeling... who 
          can't admit when she's wrong and who 
          can't forgive when she's not.

                      GRACE
          LEAVE ME ALONE!!

     Annie stops to exit as Grace says something under her breath. 
     Annie stops.

                      ANNIE
          What did you say?

                      GRACE
          I said... I started.

     Grace starts to sob. Annie doesn't understand.

                      ANNIE
          Started what?

                      GRACE
          My period.

                      ANNIE
               (softer)
          When? Tonight?

                      GRACE
               (nods)
          I felt it happen downstairs and when 
          I went into the bathroom.

     Annie reaches down to touch Grace's shoulder. Grace turns -- 
     there is no anger in her face. Annie sits and takes her in 
     her arms. Grace clings to her and sobs like a little girl. 
     Annie sees tears run -- gratefully, lovingly.

                      GRACE
          Who's going to want me now?

                      ANNIE
          What?... Oh baby...

                      GRACE
          Who's ever going to want me? Nobody 
          will.

                      ANNIE
          That's not true.

                      GRACE
          Why should they?

                      ANNIE
          Because you are... one of the most... 
          incredible, bravest, most beautiful 
          woman I have ever met. The efforts 
          you make. Your courage and your 
          dignity.
               (laughs thru tears)
          I don't know where you got it? I 
          honestly don't know how I would have 
          handled all this if I were you.

     Grace is so grateful, they cling to each other even harder. 
     As the tears subside, Grace manages to admit...

                      GRACE
          I'm sorry... about what I said. It's 
          just that -- all those times you 
          and Daddy were trying for another 
          kid, I... I used to pray at night that 
          it would work. And not because of 
          you guys or that I wanted a brother 
          or sister... but... just so I wouldn't 
          have to be...

                      ANNIE
          What?

                      GRACE
          So special. Because I was the only 
          one. You both wanted me to be so 
          good at everything, so perfect and 
          I wasn't. I was just me. And now I've 
          completely ruined everything, 
          anyway...

     They both start crying again as Annie rocks her gently.

                      ANNIE
          Sshhh... Ssshhhh...

     They hold each other as if for dear life...

     LATER -- CAMERA PANS to discover mother and daughter, fast 
     asleep, in each other's arms.

     INT. TOM'S ROOM, RANCH HOUSE - NIGHT

     Tom sits alone, writing at his desk. His music is playing. 
     He stops to look out the window overlooking the Creek House.

     Annie and Grace fell asleep with the lights still on in the 
     living room.

     Tom is thinking of Grace and Annie -- wondering what happened 
     after he left... conflicted by what he feels for Annie... And 
     remembering why they're here in the first place...

                               DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - NEXT MORNING

     The phone rings, awakening Annie first, then Grace.

                      ANNIE
          Hello?

                      OPERATOR (V.O.)
          Hello, this is ATT Conference Service. 
          Is this Annie MacLean?

                      ANNIE
          Yes.

                      OPERATOR (V.O.)
          I have a conference call scheduled for 
          you with Mr. Gottschalk and Mr. Farlow.

                      ANNIE
               (remembering)
          Oh. Oh, yes. One moment, please.

                      GRACE
          Who is it?

                      ANNIE
          Uh, nothing. I'm going to pick it up 
          in the other room -- would you hang 
          this up for me?

                      GRACE
          Sure.

     Annie moves to the other room, sits down at her office space, 
     takes a breath, then picks up, yelling to Grace;

                      ANNIE
          Okay, Grace...
               (click)
          Operator?... I'm ready.

     EXT. RIDING ARENA - LATER THAT MORNING

     Annie and Grace are standing by the arena fence. Frank, Joe 
     and the Twins are sitting on the fence rail. Joe is holding a 
     saddle and a bridle, standing in some shadows in an empty 
     arena. Pilgrim comes running into the ring. Out of habit, he 
     starts circling the ring. He sees Tom holding a saddle. 
     Pilgrim walks towards him. Curious, he stops, looking at him. 
     Tom puts the saddle down, sitting crossways on it. Pilgrim 
     walks towards him again. He stops, looking at Tom again. Tom 
     just sits there, playing with the bridle. Pilgrim walks 
     around him. Tom doesn't show him any interest. Pilgrim comes 
     closer. He looks at the saddle. He runs off. He stops, 
     looking back. Tom just sits. Pilgrim walks back over. Tom 
     stands and shows him the bridle. Pilgrim comes closer, 
     sniffing it. He rubs his nose against the leather. Tom pats 
     his head. Then, in one quick, but deft motion, he puts the 
     bridle on him. Pilgrim tosses his head, but it doesn't seem 
     to bother him. Grace and Annie watch intently. Tom takes the 
     reins, walking Pilgrim around the ring. He walks him to the 
     saddle. Pilgrim paws at it with his hoof. He turns and runs 
     off. Tom lets him go. Pilgrim runs around the ring, slows 
     down, looks over at Tom. Tom picks up the saddle. Pilgrim, 
     cautiously, comes back over. Tom, with the saddle, walks away 
     from him. Pilgrim, again curious, follows him. He nudges Tom. 
     Tom stops. Pilgrim comes around to take a good look at the 
     saddle. Tom rubs his back. And gently, like laying down a 
     sheet, puts the saddle on his back. Pilgrim shuffles slightly 
     at the touch. Tom quickly cinches it. Taking up the reins, he 
     walks Pilgrim around the ring again. He starts to jog. 
     Pilgrim jogs with him. And in the middle of the jog, Tom 
     grabs onto the saddle horn, and without breaking his stride, 
     pulls himself back up onto his back. He lays across the 
     saddle, letting Pilgrim feel his weight. He sits up, and 
     without letting him break his stride, he urges Pilgrim with 
     his thighs, keeping him in the jog, riding around the ring.

     Grace and Annie cheer. Tom tips his hat to them...

     INT. THE BARN - DAY

     Grace is cleaning stalls, etc... She exits one of the stalls 
     with a pail and stops -- looking down the barn to where she 
     knows Pilgrim is. She places the pail down and gathers her 
     courage. She walks to Pilgrim's stall. She stands motionless 
     for some moments before she opens the doors and enters...

     Pilgrim steps back a bit. He looks at her. He pins his ears 
     back. Stomps his feet. Grace is about to turn and leave, but 
     she stops herself and remains still.

     Slowly, she reaches out to touch Pilgrim's head... and he 
     lets her. We see in Grace a maturity of character, a 
     willingness to face what she must face... the beginning of a 
     compassion, not only for Pilgrim, but perhaps for herself as 
     well.

     EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - NIGHT

     A full moon lights the ranch. Tom pulls up to the ranch house 
     in his truck, parks and gets out. As he walks towards the 
     house, he hears:

     Grace exits the Creek House and coming towards him, a coat 
     over her nightgown. Tom waits until she reaches him.

                      GRACE
          I was waiting for you to come back.

     Tom instinctively knows what she wants.

                      TOM
          You hungry?

     INT. RANCH HOUSE, KITCHEN - NIGHT

     Grace sits at the table. Tom is cooking at the stove. It feels 
     as if they are the only two people on earth. Grace gets up her 
     nerve... and begins:

                      GRACE
          Judith was telling me about this boy 
          she really liked. She never even had 
          a chance to tell me his name...

     She starts to quietly cry, but it doesn't stop her.

                      GRACE
          We were going to go around by the 
          railroad bridge...

     And we see the accident all over again... But this time, a 
     movie -- as clear as reality -- but in deathly silence. Just 
     the sound of Grace's voice, and her heartbeat...

     EXT. THE WOODS, CONNECTICUT - EARLY MORNING

     The horses are going up the icy path...

                      GRACE (V.O.)
          We were laughing about something, I 
          don't remember what. Her horse fell...

     Judith's horse suddenly stumbles on the ice, going down, 
     throwing Judith, her foot helplessly caught in the stirrup. 
     Her horse sliding back down the hill.

     Grace tries to move Pilgrim to avoid the errant horse, but 
     it's too late, the horse plows into them, the horses sliding 
     back down the hillside onto the empty COUNTRY ROAD...

     EXT. COUNTRY ROAD, CT. - EARLY MORNING

     Pilgrim is first to find his legs. Judith's horse, its leg 
     broken at the ankle, walks in a confused state. Judith's foot 
     is helplessly caught in the stirrup...

                      GRACE (V.O.)
          ... Judith's foot was caught in the 
          stirrup... she couldn't get up, she 
          was so scared...
               (cries)
          I saw this truck, coming around the 
          turn...

     She sees the glint of the steel. The Truck suddenly appears 
     from around the bend.

                      GRACE (V.O.)
          ...He was honking, trying to get us to 
          move... I tried to grab the reins to 
          get Judith's horse out of the way...

     Grace grabs the reins of Judith's horse. The horses are 
     spooking...

                      GRACE (V.O.)
          ...And the truck started skidding...

     The truck skidded on the icy road, going out of control, jack-
     knifing, heading right for them...

                      GRACE (V.O.)
          ...It was coming right at us... There 
          wasn't any time to do anything... It 
          ran right into Judith's horse...

     The truck bed plows into Judith's horse...

                      GRACE (V.O.)
          ...Judith just disappeared... And it 
          came right at Pilgrim and me...

     We see this...

                      GRACE (V.O.)
          ...And Pilgrim reared up at the truck 
          and I fell off...

     Grace falls onto the road, the truck running over her.

     INT. RANCH HOUSE, KITCHEN - NIGHT

     Grace sobs uncontrollably now.

                      GRACE
          Judith... Oh God, Judith. I'm sorry...

     Tom is near and holds her as she puts her head on his chest.

                      TOM
          I won't tell you it'll stop feeling 
          this bad... But I can tell you, you 
          didn't do anything wrong... The same 
          thing would have happened to me... or 
          Frank... or Joe... And there's no 
          sense in looking for a reason why 
          things happen...
               (self-reflective)
          I used to try and... always came up 
          short. I don't think the why so's 
          important as... what we do with what 
          we get. I remember this boy I'd see 
          up on the Blackfeet Reservation. He 
          was sixteen. Great kid. Strong. He'd 
          gone swimming and dived headfirst into 
          a rock. Snapped his neck, paralyzed 
          him... After the accident, I'd look 
          in on him from time to time... and he 
          wasn't there anymore. His mind, his 
          spirit, whatever you want to call it, 
          it just disappeared. And what was left 
          was nothing but anger... It's like the 
          boy I knew just went away somewhere...

                      GRACE
          I know where he goes.

                      TOM
          I know you do. Don't you disappear.
               (holds her tighter)
          You do whatever you have to, to hold 
          on...
               (thinks)
          I'll tell you one more thing... When 
          Pilgrim reared up to face that 
          truck... you know what I think?... I 
          think that damn horse loved you so much, 
          he was trying to protect you... That's 
          what I think.

     Grace listens to this. As Tom holds her in silence, it's 
     almost as if they were father and daughter...

     EXT. THE CORRAL - PRE-DAWN

     Tom stands with Grace in the corral. Tom's horse, Rimrock, is 
     saddled nearby. Tom takes Grace's cane.

                      TOM
          Let me hold that...

     Grace stands, looking at the horse...

                      GRACE
          I can't... not yet...

                      TOM
          There's no hurry. Take you time.

     She's trying so hard to be brave. After a moment, she reaches 
     for the saddle horn. She puts her prosthetic leg in the 
     stirrup, takes a breath and swings her leg up -- slipping, 
     falling to the ground. Tom doesn't say anything. She pulls 
     herself back up. She repeats the action... determinedly. She 
     swings her leg over again and sits squarely on the horse. Tom 
     remains still, but proud.

     As the day breaks, we leave them in silence -- Tom standing, 
     hands in pocket... Grace sitting up on the horse, proudly.

     EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE, THE PASTURE - EARLY MORNING

     Endless sky. Annie is jogging off in the distance when she 
     looks up and stops to see: Tom and Grace, both on horses, 
     stopped on a rolling hill. They do not see her.

     Annie is filled with emotion... pride for her daughter, 
     gratitude for this amazing man.

     As the two ride off into the distance we do a slow:

                               FADE OUT:

                              SHOCK CUT:

     BRIGHT SUNSHINE... CATTLE DRIVE...

     EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DAY

     Frank and Diane, with the Twins, dogs at their heels, ride in 
     front of the herd. Behind them, Joe riding alongside Grace. 
     Smokey and some Hands ride among the herd, keeping them moving.

     And riding behind the herd are Annie and Tom...

     MONTAGE OF VARIOUS MOMENTS THROUGHOUT THE DAY DURING THE CATTLE 
     DRIVE... Highlighting, in particular, those in which the rising 
     sexual tension between Tom and Annie is apparent.

     EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - NIGHT

     The cattle stands in silhouette. We hear singing.

     Everyone is sitting around a campfire. Frank's playing the 
     guitar, singing along with Tom. They laugh when a lyric or a 
     note goes wrong. Everyone is enjoying it.

     Annie, her arms around her knees, sits off by herself. The 
     song ends and people applaud.

     Frank hands the guitar to Hank;

                      FRANK
          Play that sweet one you know. The one 
          makes my wife here so friendly.

                      DIANE
               (slaps his shoulder)
          You!

     Hank begins to play and sing a painfully pretty song. His 
     sweet voice is stark contrast to his gruff, strongman 
     appearance. Frank offers his hand to Diane, she slaps it away 
     and laughs, he helps her up and they start to dance. As 
     everyone watches...

     Joe stands and offers his hand to Grace;

                      JOE
          You wouldn't want to dance with me, 
          would you?

                      GRACE
          I don't thinks you'd want me tripping 
          all over you in front of everybody.

                      JOE
               (sweetly)
          I wouldn't let happen.

                      GRACE
               (affectionately)
          You know, you're a good kid.

     Joe smiles and helps her up. They come together and start 
     dancing.

     Annie is watching, holding her breath with gratitude.

     Tom notices Annie off by herself and crosses to her. He 
     extends his hand. She hesitates, looks again to Grace with 
     Joe, then accepts...

     His hand slide to her back. Her hand to his shoulder. They 
     dance. Their bodies closer than they've ever been. Slowly, 
     she leans her head against his body. And surrenders, for the 
     moment...

     Diane sees them. She holds her husband fast, and buries her 
     head on his neck.

     EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DAY

     MORE CATTLE DRIVE MANTAGE -- Taking Tom and Annie a bit 
     further in their intimacy; perhaps Tom takes extra special 
     care to explain things to Annie, or fix her saddle cinch, or 
     make her laugh...

     EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - EVENING

     The cows stands in the pasture, grazing. Annie and Diane are 
     cleaning some pots and pans in the stream.

                      DIANE
          Must be nice for you to take a few 
          days off from your work, huh?

                      ANNIE
          Well, I have more than a few days, ha, 
          ha... I uh... I'm sort of... not an 
          editor anymore... right now... First 
          time I've said it out loud.

                      DIANE
          They fired you?

                      ANNIE
          No, it's more like a leave of-
               (stops)
          Ha, ha, ha. Yeah, they fired me.

                      DIANE
          You don't seem to upset?

                      ANNIE
          Delayed shock. Or maybe not. I know 
          I could talk my way back if I wanted 
          or... go to another magazine, 
          someplace... Just not sure if I want 
          to.

                      DIANE
          Guess you don't have to figure it out 
          until you go home.

     This phrase "go home" stings Annie -- though Diane said it 
     innocently.

                      ANNIE
          Did you always know this was the life 
          you wanted?

                      DIANE
          I fell in love. After that, I never 
          thought about being anything but a 
          rancher's wife. I never saw it like I 
          was losing some other life, just felt 
          like I was gaining one. I know that's 
          not a popular opinion nowadays and I 
          ain't saying it's the right one. We 
          all have to find the life meant for us.

                      ANNIE
          Frank's a good man.

                      DIANE
          They don't come better. But I don't 
          deny there are times I wonder about 
          things I won't have. Maybe one day I'll 
          get to see Egypt. Maybe not. But I know 
          if you try too many different lives, 
          you can wind up with no life at all...

                      ANNIE
          Sounds like something Tom would say.

                      DIANE
          Yes, it does.

     Annie and Diane resume washing the dishes in silence. Annie 
     deep in thought. Until Diane stops. After a beat, Annie 
     notices.

                      ANNIE
          What?

                      DIANE
          Annie, I'm not good at this kind of talk 
          -- goes round and round a thing but 
          never comes to it -- so let's just say 
          what it is. When you first came here, 
          I didn't like you and I was worried. Tom 
          means a lot to me and this family. Don't 
          go looking here for whatever you looking 
          for. Don't make that man go through 
          something it took him a long time to see 
          his way clear out of the first time.

                      ANNIE
          I don't think anybody can make Tom do 
          anything he didn't want.

                      DIANE
          He's a good man, Tom is. He's got a 
          gift, come from heaven above, I swear. 
          But he's still a man. And a woman can 
          lead a man into the middle of a mountain 
          lake -- and still make him think he's on 
          dry land.

     Diane's words ring in Annie's head.

     EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DEAD OF NIGHT

     Dead in stillness. The cattle dark and motionless. Everyone 
     asleep in bedrolls around the pasture.

     Annie awakens, looks up at the moon, watching it go in and 
     out of the clouds. She looks over to sleeping Grace... Then 
     looks to where Tom is -- and sees his sleeping bag is empty. 
     Quietly, she rises and looks for him.

     She starts across the grass and sees him crossing on his 
     haunches, wearing a slicker, sitting in the grass by the 
     stream, drinking some water. She watches him.

     Tom senses something and turns. For a moment, they just look 
     at each other -- half disbelieving the inevitable is so close 
     at hand. Annie approaches as Tom rises.

     They meet. They kiss. Tentative at first, but more, just to 
     make that very, precious first moment of discovery last as 
     long as it can. The kiss grows more passionate. They begin to 
     lose themselves in each other.

     Until, suddenly, aware of their surroundings, they part. No 
     words. Their expressions to each other tell all. Annie 
     separates herself and goes back to her bedroll... Tom stands 
     in the grass, by the stream... the moving water, the night's 
     only sound.

                               DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

     The cattle drive returns. Tom, Annie, Grace, et al... are on 
     their horses, heading back towards the ranch when Grace sees 
     in the distance;

                      GRACE
          Dad?

     Annie looks up and sees:

     POV -- ROBERT has come to the ranch. He is waiting for them 
     with his luggage beside a rental car... standing out like an 
     Like The Man In The Gray Flannel Suit in the middle of 
     Wyeth's "Christina's World."

     EXT. RANCH HOUSE - DAY

     Everyone is being introduced to Robert, as Grace hugs him 
     from the side, never letting go of him. Frank, Diane -- who 
     introduce their kids, then Tom and Robert shake hands...

                      ANNIE
          This is Mr. Booker, Robert.

                      TOM
               (extends hand)
          Tom.

                      ROBERT
          Hi. It's a pleasure. I'm very grateful 
          for the way you took in my girls here. 
          I bet you were surprised when they 
          just showed up out of nowhere.

                      TOM
          Oh yeah...

     Laugh. Awkward silence...

                      ROBERT
          Well I uh... I can already see a change.
               (hugging Grace)
          And I'm very grateful to you.

     Robert is so sincere -- in that openly, modern, "express your 
     feelings" kind of way. Tom just nods.

                      GRACE
          Did you notice -- no cane?

                      ROBERT
          I know. Amazing.

                      GRACE
          Can we show him Pilgrim, Tom?

                      TOM
          Oh, we're gonna show your dad plenty. 
          Why don't you all get settled in and 
          we'll do the tour. Excuse me.

     As Tom walks away, a nervous Robert feels compelled to say:

                      ROBERT
          See you later!

     Tom just nods and keeps walking. Annie and Robert face each 
     other for a beat.

                      ANNIE
          Let's bring your bags inside.

                      GRACE
          Wait till you see this -- we have the 
          whole house to ourselves...

     The MacLean walk to the Creek House.

     EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

     In the distance, we see the pick-up truck parked out in the 
     pasture. Tom is standing with Robert -- in jeans, now -- and 
     Grace, telling Robert about the ranch. Robert has his arms 
     around Grace, asking questions, interested in everything... 
     Grace is loving being with her two favorite men...

     EXT. RANCH - DAY

     Grace waits in the truck as Tom leads Robert through the cows 
     and cowshit, climbs up and hops over a wood fence. Robert 
     follows suit -- not as gracefully -- and gets a splinter...

     INT. RANCH KITCHEN - DAY

     Diane is busy in the kitchen when Annie enters.

                      ANNIE
          Is there anything you need? I'm going 
          food-shopping.

                      DIANE
          Well, I am going to go after lunch.

                      ANNIE
          No, no, I'll go -- just give me a 
          list.

     Annie is determined. She needs to be by herself for a bit.

     EXT. ANOTHER PART OF THE RANCH - DAY

     Tom continues his tour as the dogs run about them. Tom pays 
     the dogs no attention, except to bark an order. Robert, 
     however, engages with them -- picking up a stick and throws 
     it. A dog returns and gives it back. Robert kneels and begins 
     rubbing the dog's fur, talking to it, looking like an 
     anachronism in his baggy jeans with designer cowboy belt and 
     spanking new designer cowboy boots.

     Tom waits patiently for Robert, who... and carries on with 
     the dog a bit too long. When Robert gets up, he habitually 
     brushes the dirt off his jeans, maybe even his boots, and 
     makes sure his outfit is hanging properly.

     INT. BARN - DAY

     Grace is in the stall with Pilgrim. Once again, close enough 
     to touch him, which he allows.

     Outside the stall, stand Robert and Tom. Robert squeezes his 
     splinter...

                      ROBERT
          I can't believe it's the same horse.

                      TOM
          We still have a way to go.

                      ROBERT
          How much longer do you think?

     Tom understands this man wants his family back.

                      TOM
          Well, like I told your wife, it's 
          really up to Pilgrim.

                      ROBERT
          I understand...

                               DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING

     Everyone is seated around the table, eating, talking, laughing. 
     Grace is right by her father's side. Frank's in the middle of 
     telling Robert:

                      FRANK
          We thought we lost him in the snow 
          storm... Told the kids. Had a funeral 
          for the damn thing. Finally, snow 
          stops. Staring to warm up. I go out 
          and start cleaning the truck... 
          Goddamn if that dog doesn't jump out 
          from the back seat covered in snow... 
          I nearly stained myself.

                      TOM
          He thought it was a ghost.

                      JOE
          A dog ghost!

     Laughter all around.

                               DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. RANCH HOUSE - NIGHT

     Everyone is outside enjoying the night after a long day.

     Diane and Annie are on the porch. Diane is showing Annie how 
     she does her needlepoint. Annie is genuinely interested.

     Tom and Frank and Robert are sitting out front. Grace is at 
     Robert's feet. Joe sits on the ground in front of his father, 
     opposite Grace.

                      TOM
          Is the poverty worse, now, you 
          think?

                      ROBERT
          I haven't been back in over twenty 
          years, but I wouldn't be surprised. 
          The population's larger.

                      FRANK
          What were you doing over in India?

                      ROBERT
          Uh, this was right after college. I 
          was in the Peace Corps.

                      FRANK
          That right?

     Back on Diane and Annie, who hear the laughter O.S. and look. 
     Diane smiles, seeing how much Grace is enjoying her dad.

                      DIANE
          She sure loves her daddy, huh?

     Annie smiles and looks herself. Yes, she does, she thinks. Why 
     can't I?

     Back to the others. Everyone is very interested in Robert's 
     stories... especially Tom.

                      ROBERT
          ... and I thought before I settled 
          into law school -- everybody knew that 
          was the plan -- I'd take this time for 
          myself.

     Grace rises to go to the Creek House.

                      ROBERT
          And I tell you, Frank, it was one of 
          the --

     As Grace passes by, she stumbles a bit and Robert habitually 
     rises to help, but Grace ignores him and rights herself, 
     continuing. Robert quickly sits back down, continuing.

                      ROBERT
          ... one of the uh... greatest times 
          of my life... I had experiences that, 
          I think, changed my outlook forever. 
          I came back a different person, 
          literally.

     Tom listens with great interest and respect.

     Back to Diane and Annie, who watch as Joe follows Grace.

                      DIANE
          I think I'm going to have my hands 
          full with the son of mine when you 
          leave. Just might be his first 
          broken heart.

                      ANNIE
          Oh, how sweet.

     A burst of laughter pulls their attention to the group -- 
     Robert is now standing, acting out a story.

                      ROBERT
          ... and I have no idea what he's 
          saying because I don't understand 
          Hindu...

     Everyone is listening, with big expectant smiles. Annie 
     watches -- having heard this story before. Her eyes gradually 
     shift to Tom, who is enjoying the story.

                      ROBERT
          ... So, finally I'm trying to explain 
          to him that I'm allergic to wool and 
          would he please get his sheep out of 
          my car --

     Laughter. Robert continues, giving a quick look to Annie -- 
     who is looking at Tom... Robert lets it go, continuing his 
     story.

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

     Grace is asleep. Robert sits by her bed, lit by the moon 
     through a window. He stares at this creature he loves so 
     much. He rises and enters Annie's room.

                      ROBERT
          Tired?

     Annie shrugs. Robert looks at the bed. He teases.

                      ROBERT
          Small bed. Maybe I should sleep in 
          the barn.

                      ANNIE
               (teases back)
          You're allergic to hay.

                      ROBERT
               (smiles)
          I apologize for the surprise, but the 
          days only opened yesterday and I 
          figured...

                      ANNIE
          You don't have to explain. You have 
          every right to come.

                      ROBERT
          I can see why you put your faith in 
          him. He's a genuine... good guy... 
          Good at what he does. That's rare.

     Annie nods. She tries to hide her discomfort. Robert sits on 
     the bed before her.

                      ROBERT
          You were right about coming here. I'm 
          sorry for not thinking...

                      ANNIE
          No, it's okay. Believe me, there were 
          plenty of times I didn't know what 
          the hell was right.

                      ROBERT
          How are you feeling about work?

                      ANNIE
          Let's not talk about that now.

     And they're quiet. He moves to kiss her. It's awkward. They 
     look to each other -- as they try to remember how to make love 
     together...

                      ROBERT
          I feel like I'm on a first date.

     Annie smiles sympathetically.

     EXT. BARN DANCE, HANK'S RANCH - DUSK

     Cars and pick-up trucks haphazardly parked along a dirt 
     road... Smoking open grill barbecues. Ranchers and families 
     move about the ranch, sit and eat at picnic tables with 
     gingham tablecloths... Some teenagers hanging around the 
     corral, talking. Diane and some other women, eating and 
     talking... Frank with a group of men, drinking beer, telling 
     stories.

     A BAND has been set up by the barn. People are dancing under 
     the harvest moon. Grace is dancing with Joe... Tom is dancing 
     with a local woman... Annie with a rancher... Everyone is 
     having a good time...

     Robert is enjoying a smoke with some men. He looks over to 
     the dance floor and smiles when he sees Grace and Joe.

     Joe and the Rancher trade place... Joe dances with Annie, the 
     Rancher with Grace... But Tom sees his chance and switches 
     with the Rancher so that he can dance with Grace... She is 
     thrilled and he guides her effortlessly across the floor.

     Joe and Annie are interrupted by another couple. Joe switches 
     partners, but Annie smiles and excuses herself -- she wants to 
     rest.

     Robert continues talking with some of the men. He puts out 
     his smoke and looks over to the dance floor. He sees Grace now 
     dancing with Tom... His eyes search for Annie. He moves away 
     from the men until he sees, from a distance;

     Annie, sitting by herself, amidst the crowd... No one would 
     notice her unless they were looking for her... But Robert does 
     -- and what he sees is Annie looking at Grace and Tom... then, 
     only looking at Tom... Smiling to herself gently... Watching 
     his every move. Suddenly, she rises and exits out of the barn 
     to get some air.

     EXT. HANK'S RANCH - NIGHT

     Annie finds an isolated spot, behind the main house, to be by 
     herself and catch her breath.

     INT. BARN - NIGHT

     Tom and Grace continue dancing. She's in heaven. Robert 
     approaches and Tom quickly allows him to take over. Grace 
     loves the attention from both men. As they dance off, Tom 
     crosses the dance floor and is met by Hank's wife;

                      HANK'S WIFE
          Oh Tom, would you check the shed and see 
          if there's anymore chairs.

                      TOM
          Sure.

     EXT. HANK'S RANCH - NIGHT

     Tom is walking along when he turns the corner of Hank's house 
     and finds;

     Annie sitting alone, staring up at the night. They see each 
     other. From behind the house, no one else can see them.

     It is as if the fates brought them face to face and alone. 
     Without any will to stop it, they embrace and kiss 
     passionately. But when they look into each other's eyes, 
     there is no joy in the kiss. Tom releases her and walks away, 
     heading for the shed. Annie quickly pulls herself together 
     and enters the main house through the back door.

     INT. DOUBLE DIVIDE RANCH, KITCHEN - NIGHT

     Diane is once more sitting at the kitchen table, looking over 
     some bills before bed. Her tape player is on softly. Tom 
     enters and crosses to the sink to get a glass of water.

     Diane looks up, seeing Tom with his back to her -- standing at 
     the sink, filling his glass -- staring out the window over the 
     sink. She looks to the dish of brownies on the table.

                      DIANE
          I have some brownies left over. Want 
          one?

                      TOM
               (w/o turning around)
          No thanks.

     Diane senses an uneasiness in Tom. She looks as he drinks his 
     water.

     MEDIUM CLOSE-UP ON TOM'S BACK, as if from Diane's POV.

     But when we pull back we find ourselves;

     INT. BARN - NIGHT

     Tom is standing in front of Pilgrim's stall. He opens the 
     door. They look at each other. He strokes him and begins to 
     whisper;

                      TOM
          There's something you have to do 
          tomorrow, boy...

     Camera gently moves away... and Tom whispers to Pilgrim what 
     must be done...

     EXT. THE RIDING ARENA - DAY

     There's a stillness. A sense of import. Annie, Robert, Frank, 
     Diane, Joe and Smokey, are all at various spots along the fence.

     Grace stands inside the ring. Tom is standing beside Pilgrim 
     in the middle of the ring. Pilgrim is bridled and saddled. 
     Tom adjusts he stirrup. He walks over to Grace...

                      TOM
          All set?

     Grace swallows hard, nodding. She's worried...

                      TOM
          Sure?

                      GRACE
               (softly)
          Sure.

     Tom puts his arms around her shoulders and walks out to 
     Pilgrim. The horse pricks up his ears as they approach. Tom 
     motions Grace to stop a short distance from Pilgrim so as not 
     to crowd him. Tom walks over alone, reaching to gently take 
     hold of him. Holding him by the bridle, he puts his head 
     beside Pilgrim's, quietly speaking to him, soothing Pilgrim's 
     neck with his other hand...

     Annie and Robert are fascinated. Anxious.

     Pilgrim never takes his eyes off Grace. Tom tries to ease him 
     forward. Pilgrim resists, lifting his head and looking at 
     Grace so you can see the white at the top of his eye. Tom 
     turns him away, walking him in circles, trying to calm him. 
     He leads him back to Grace. Pilgrim tosses his head and 
     stomps his feet.

     Robert grows more anxious. Annie is calmer, more focused.

     Tom climbs up on him, riding him around the arena in an easy 
     lope. Grace watches them go round the ring. She looks at her 
     parents and tries to smile. They try as well.

     Tom dismounts and leads Pilgrim back to Grace. Pilgrim balks 
     again, violently throwing his head, kicking... Grace's 
     shoulders slump, she presses her hands in her pockets, 
     fighting not to cry...

                      TOM
          Smokey...

     Smokey climbs over the rail into the ring as Tom says something 
     to him. Meanwhile Frank reassures Grace:

                      FRANK
          He'll be okay, Grace. Just you hang 
          on there a minute or two. Tom'll get 
          him, okay, you'll see...

     Smokey jogs over to the gate, climbing it, and disappearing 
     into the barn. Tom crosses to Grace.

                      TOM
          There's still something going on 
          inside of him I can't reach. So me 
          and Smokey here, we're going to 
          try laying him down. Okay?

                      GRACE
          What does that mean?

                      TOM
          It's more or less how it sounds. 
          Sometimes it's not pretty to watch. 
          Some horses fight it real hard. 
          Your fella's already shown us he 
          likes a good fight. So if you don't 
          want to watch, I'll call you when it's 
          done.

                      GRACE
          I want to watch.

     Smokey re-enters the ring, carrying some rope. He talks 
     briefly to Tom. Pilgrim, sensing something, turns and runs to 
     the far side of the ring. Tom, his arms spread, walks over 
     to him, keeping him by the fence. Tom takes him by the 
     bridle. Smokey comes beside him. Tom unhitches the bridle and 
     in its place slips a rope halter Smokey passes to him. 
     Smokey then hands him two long ropes, one at a time. Tom 
     fastens one under the halter and ties the other to the saddle 
     horn. Tom asks Smokey.

                      TOM
          You got that soft rope?

     Smokey hands it to him. Tom quietly talks to Pilgrim, runs 
     his hand down Pilgrim's left foreleg and lifts his hoof. 
     Pilgrim slightly shifts. And when he's still, Tom slips the 
     loop at the end of the soft rope over the hoof making sure 
     it's snug. And taking the other end of the rope, he hoists the 
     weight of Pilgrim's raised hoof and ties the rope to the 
     saddle horn. Pilgrim stands on three legs -- an explosion 
     waiting to happen. Tom moves away from Pilgrim, taking the 
     halter line from Smokey. Pilgrim, trying to move, finds he's 
     crippled. Scared, he lurches, hopping on his right foreleg. 
     Seeing he can't walk, panicked, he tries to run. Tom and 
     Smokey, brace themselves, lean back on their ropes and force 
     him around them in a tight circle. He goes around and around 
     like a crazed rocking horse with a broken leg. Tom looks over 
     and sees Annie has left Robert outside the ring to stand by 
     an anguished Grace -- her hands on her shoulders, gripping 
     her. Robert watches, feeling too much a foreigner...

                      GRACE
          What is he doing this?

                      FRANK
          It'll be OK, Grace.

     But even Frank isn't so sure. Pilgrim, covered in sweat, 
     still circles. As he runs, his hobbled foot jabs at the air, 
     trying to find peace. He runs and runs as Tom and Smokey lean 
     on the ropes -- until he can't run any more and stops. Tom and 
     Smokey let the lines go slack. Pilgrim, stands there, his wet 
     sides heaving, panting like an asthmatic, making loud rasping 
     sounds. Tom and Smokey speak. Smokey hands him his rope. 
     Turning, he gets a coiled lasso out of the sand. He swings 
     the rope in a wide loop and makes it fall over Pilgrim's 
     saddle horn. He pulls it tight. And he takes the other end of 
     the rope to the far side of the fence and ties it in a quick 
     release knot to the bottom rung. Coming back he takes the 
     other two lines from Tom. Tom crosses to the rail. He starts 
     putting pressure on the rope. Pilgrim feeing it, braces 
     himself. The pressure tilts the saddle hold downward.

                      FRANK
               (to Grace and Annie)
          He's trying to get him to go down 
          on his knees...

     Pilgrim fights. Tom pulls on the rope. Pilgrim, slowly, 
     begrudgingly, gives ground. Tom, brings him to his knees, 
     but it is short lived. Pilgrim is muscling his way back to 
     his feet. Tom pulls him down to his knees again. Pilgrim, 
     fighting with every bit of strength, slowly gets to his feet 
     again. But the pressure Tom is putting on the saddle is too 
     strong and relentless and finally Pilgrim goes down on his 
     knees and stays down. Yet Tom keeps the pressure on... Tom 
     shouts to Smokey.

                      TOM
          Drop the lines and come help me...

     Smokey, dropping the line, runs over. They both pull on 
     the saddle rope.

                      GRACE
          That's enough! Stop it!

     Pilgrim snorts and foams at the mouth, fighting. But 
     slowly, like a wounded bird, she starts giving in. He 
     rolls over on his side and lays his head in the sand and 
     is still. It seems like a total, humiliating surrender. 
     Grace starts to sob, burying her face in Annie's chest. 
     Robert feels impotent to help.

                      TOM
          GRACE!

     Tom and Smokey stand over the fallen horse like two big 
     game hunters at the carcass of a kill.

                      TOM
          GRACE! Will you come here, please!

     Grace shakes her head "NO." Frank motions to Annie for 
     her to let Grace go... to let stand alone... We see 
     that it's not easy for Annie to trust this, but she does. 
     And she steps back to where Robert stands...

     Tom, his face set, walks toward Grace...

                      TOM
          Grace, I need you to come with me.

     Grace violently shakes her head "NO"... Robert gets up the 
     courage to say aloud:

                      ROBERT
          Well maybe she shouldn't be here...

     Annie quickly turns to him and says with quick intensity:

                      ANNIE
          Robert! Let him handle it! Please!

     Robert can't watch this. He turns and takes a few steps. 
     Just stops... standing behind and apart from Annie, to 
     just watch... slowly becoming transfixed, like someone 
     who can't stop staring at an accident.

     Tom reaches Grace and puts his hand tenderly on her shoulder...

                      TOM
          Grace, I need you to come with me.

                      GRACE
          No, you're only going to hurt him 
          some more.

                      TOM
          He's not hurt. He's okay. Look at him.

                      GRACE
                 (turned away)
          No!

                      TOM
          Grace, Listen... you've got to do this. 
          Just trust me one more time.

     Grace looks into his eyes and is reminded of all this man 
     has done for her... and she remembers her trust.

                      GRACE
          Do what?

     Tom, prouder of her now than ever before.

                      TOM
          I'll show you.

     Tom leads her across the ring, with his arm around her 
     shoulder. Annie tries to maintain her composure. Robert 
     remains still and focused.

     Tom and Grace come to Pilgrim, lying in the dirt, his 
     breathing plaintive. Tom speaks gently;

                      TOM
          I want you to lay down with him. I 
          want you to stroke him. I want to 
          start with his hindquarters and rub 
          him, feel him all over.

     Grace is shaking her head "NO." He speaks more firmly.

                      TOM
          Grace, you've got to do what I say.

     Grace knows there's no way out. She takes a breath and slowly 
     kneels in the dirt beside him, with Tom's help. She lays on 
     him, rubbing him, his hindquarters, his legs, his side, 
     softly rubbing his neck and the wet silky side of his head.

                      TOM
          Now, listen. I want you to stand on 
          him.

                      ANNIE
          What?!

     Tom responds to their voice without looking at them:

                      TOM
          PLEASE!
               (they stop)
          Grace, do what I'm telling you. Stand 
          on him... now!

     Grace obeys him through her tears. She lets Tom take her hand 
     and guide her up onto the curve of Pilgrim's belly. Then he 
     lets go. Grace stands there with teas steaming down her 
     face -- standing on the animal she loved most in the world.

                      ANNIE
          It's so cruel.

                      FRANK
          No. He had the choice.

                      ANNIE
          What choice!!?

                      FRANK
          Either fight the way things are or 
          accept it.

     Robert, however, is hypnotized by the event. He is having a 
     private epiphany of sorts.

     Grace sits in the dirt by Pilgrim and strokes him quietly -- 
     she begins talking to him, the way Tom does. Tom watches, as 
     he cautiously steps further away. Pilgrim looks up at Grace 
     out of the dark pool of his one sad eye. They look at each 
     other. And we understand there's a connection once more. A 
     moment of understanding... and forgiveness.

     Grace starts to untie his ropes. Smokey is about to stop her 
     but Tom shakes "NO"...

     Pilgrim, like an infant coming out of the water, breathing 
     life for the first time, gets to his feet. Grace and him look 
     to each other. And all is still.

     Grace grabs the saddle horn. Pilgrim shuffles as if he's 
     going to bolt. Grace quietly reassures him... She then 
     carefully puts her prosthetic leg in the stirrup. Pilgrim 
     shifts slightly. Annie covers her mouth so as not to scream 
     out her fear. Robert breaths heavily. They watch as Grace 
     swings her leg, determined, and pulls herself into the 
     saddle. Sitting on his back, Pilgrim tosses his head and 
     looks as he's going to run off. But Grace puts her arms 
     around his neck, and once again, quietly reassures him.

     She starts to ride him, slowly, her arms around his neck, 
     talking all the while, around the ring.

     Annie laughs as she cries -- emotion overwhelming her. Robert 
     feels almost numb with fascination, gratitude, confusion...

     The slow ride turns into a trot... then a lope... then a 
     canter... round and round the ring. Frank and Diane smile. 
     Diane looks to Tom and knows what he's feeling...

     Tom watches as any father would -- his heart pounding with 
     pride for the miracle of his child. But he doesn't let on for 
     a second.

     Grace brings Pilgrim to a stop, lifts her arms to the 
     heavens, victorious. Everyone cheers. Smokey helps her off 
     the horse. She stops to look at Tom, who busies himself with 
     picking up the ropes... So she re-focuses on her parents. They 
     run to each other and embrace... First, she and Annie... then, 
     she and her father...

     But, as Robert and Grace hold each other and begins to exit, 
     Annie manages to make eye contact with Tom... and tell him 
     with one look, how grateful she is... and how much she loves 
     him. And he receives it...

     EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - DAY

     WE FOLLOW THE DAYS AFTER THIS EVENT...

     Work on the ranch goes on as usual while Tom and Grace keep 
     nurturing Pilgrim back to life.

     EXT. PASTURE - ANOTHER DAY

     Grace and Annie go riding...

     EXT. MOUNTAIN TRAIL - DAY

     Robert takes an isolated hike up the mountain until he comes 
     upon a ridge overlooking an inspiring vista. We can tell 
     Robert is moved by the sight. Sweaty, tired, he find a place 
     to sit... to be still... and to consider his life.

     EXT. THE RANCH HOUSE - DAY

     Frank's car is parked up for the trip to the airport that 
     will take the Bookers to Branton, Missouri for Diane's 
     cousin's wedding...

     Grace, Annie and Robert are outside saying goodbye to the 
     Bookers; Diane, the Twins... and Joe... Joe awkwardly shakes 
     her hand... then removes his hat and puts it on her head. 
     Everyone laughs. They want to hug each other, but don't know 
     if they would...

     Frank and Tom are packing the car...

                      DIANE
          Oh Frank, don't forget the wedding 
          present -- it's behind the door in 
          the laundry room.
               (to Robert and Annie)
          I got her a pasta maker from the 
          catalogue... Not that they'll know 
          what to do with it in Branton, 
          Missouri... Probably use it as a 
          planter.

                      FRANK
          Diane!

                      DIANE
               (whispers)
          Frank's touchy about his cousins.
               (they laugh)
          Well, it was nice to meet you, Mr. 
          MacLean.

                      ROBERT
          Same here, Mrs. Booker. Thank you 
          again for all your kindness.

                      DIANE
          Ah...

     Diane turns to Annie. Robert instinctively steps away, saying 
     goodbye to Joe and the boys... The two women look at each 
     other with respect and concern.

                      DIANE
          Now, are you sure you want to drive 
          that horse back yourself? There are 
          plenty of people 'round here who do 
          that sort of thing.

                      ANNIE
          I already know the way... and it's 
          not like I have a job I have to rush 
          home for.
               (Diane nods)
          Between you and me, I could use the 
          time alone.

     Diane understands.

                      DIANE
          And you'll be all right by yourself 
          here,
               (referring to Robert and Grace)
          after they've gone?

     Tom hears this bit of info as he passes by with the wedding 
     present and puts it in the truck. Annie makes sure to avert 
     her look.

                      ANNIE
          It's just one night. If I get 
          uncomfortable, I'll go over to 
          Hanks.

                      DIANE
               (double meaning)
          Promise?

                      ANNIE
          Promise.

     Diane just nods, knowingly. She extends her hand. The women 
     shake.

                      DIANE
            Good luck to you, Annie.

                      ANNIE
          You too, Diane.

     They part. Diane starts giving order as she gets in the car:

                      DIANE
          All right, everybody in. Frank, we 
          all set...

     Camera wides as we hear the voices of departure... see the 
     MacLeans waving... See Tom off by himself, waving... but 
     thinking of something else...

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

     In the midst of packing, Annie has made dinner for Grace and 
     Robert. In the midst of eating, Robert asks:

                      ROBERT
          Shouldn't we have invited Tom over?

                      GRACE
          I did. He said he had work to do 
          until late.

     Annie remains silent.

     EXT. RANCH HOUSE -- NIGHT

     Tom exits with a small, leather satchel. He crosses to his 
     truck, tosses in the satchel, gets in and drives off.

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. BARN - MORNING

     Grace enters the barn to say goodbye to Pilgrim.

     INT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

     She moves to his stall and opens the doors. He stands there, 
     without any fear of her. She smiles and enters. She wraps her 
     arm around his neck, pets him and whispers.

                      GRACE
          I'll see you home... OK?

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - DAY

     Everything is being packed up. Robert is dressed for travel. 
     Annie is taping up the boxes containing her computer 
     equipment.

                      ANNIE
          Are you going to stay in the city or 
          go up to Connecticut?

                      ROBERT
          Connecticut. I told the office I'd 
          work out of there next week. When are 
          you planning to start back?

                      ANNIE
          Probably first thing in the morning. 
          It's too late to start now. I'm going 
          to try not to do too much driving in 
          the dark.

                      ROBERT
          May I have a suggestion?

                      ANNIE
          Yeah, what?

                      ROBERT
          Take your time.

                      ANNIE
               (innocently)
          What do you mean?

     Annie looks up from the box to see Robert is calmly staring 
     at her. His demeanor is different. Something's going on.

                      ANNIE
          You look like something's wrong.

     This is Robert's moment. He knows it. He takes a breath and 
     hopes it comes out right:

                      ROBERT
          I'll tell you something, Annie -- I 
          stood there looking at what was 
          happening to that horse... And, I 
          swear, it felt like the same thing 
          was happening to me.

                      ANNIE
          I don't understa-

                      ROBERT
                 (continues)
          And I have two choices. I can either 
          fight the way things are, or accept 
          them.
               (Annie waits; he smiles)
          See, I always knew I loved you more. 
          Didn't bother me. I always felt 
          lucky... a little amazed... that such 
          a vibrant, beautiful woman would want 
          to be with a man like me... And I 
          guess I thought as long as I did 
          everything right -- if I was the best 
          husband I could be, the best father... 
          even being a good lawyer only mattered 
          to me because of what it meant for 
          us... if I could do all that, it 
          wouldn't make any difference if we 
          loved each other the same or not... 
          I wasn't asking for more. I told myself 
          I didn't need more.
               (smiles)
          But you don't know how you feel about 
          me. You don't know... if you want a 
          life with me anymore...
               (bravely)
          And I don't want you to come home 
          until you do know...
               (the hard part)
          ... one way or the other.

     Annie cannot remember a time when she ever loved her husband 
     more than in this moment -- knowing what it took for him to 
     say this. She would not disrespect it with denials. Her 
     throat is choked with tears, she swallows down. She nods.

     Robert nods, feeling both pride and heartbreak in the same 
     moment. He picks up his bag, kisses her goodbye and exits.

     EXT. RANCH HOUSE - DAY

     Annie and Robert walk towards the car to find Grace, leaning 
     against it -- looking depressed.

                      ANNIE
          What's the matter, honey? Gonna miss 
          Pilgrim?

                      GRACE
          Tom's gone.

     Both Robert and Annie are surprised.

                      GRACE
          Smokey told me he left last night to 
          look at some horses in Sheriden. He 
          won't be back for three days. I can't 
          believe he didn't want to say goodbye.

                      ANNIE
               (hiding her own distress)
          Well... honey... you know... that's 
          just not his way. Maybe you can write 
          him a letter or something. Say thank 
          you... Don't think about it... You 
          take care and I'll see you home.

     She embraces Grace and, over her shoulder, watches Robert 
     enter the car. Grace follows suit. The car drives off leaving 
     Annie alone at the Double Divide.

     EXT. CREEK HOUSE - DUSK

     The ranch is still. Annie stands on the porch, her arms 
     folded, vulnerable, looking at the ranch. All her boxes are 
     packed and stacked in the room. She looks over to the Ranch 
     House... to Tom's window.

     INT. TOM'S ROOM - DUSK

     A light goes on. Annie enters, cautiously. She's never been 
     in this room. She crosses to the desk, touches it. She 
     notices a tape player and pushes it on. MUSIC PLAYS... She 
     sees a small framed photo -- of Tom's son, years ago.

     Suddenly, she feels like an intruder. She shuts the music off 
     and exits...

     INT. BARN - DUSK

     Annie faces Pilgrim... she gently lifts her hand and caresses 
     his face. He returns her gentleness. Annie is remembering 
     Robert's words, her heart is heavy with conflict. She jokes:

                      ANNIE
          Why do I get the feeling you know 
          what I should do, but you're not 
          telling me?

     She hears a truck pull up... Then, a door open and close. Her 
     heart races...

     EXT. BARN - DUSK

     Annie exits the barn and sees:

     Tom, walking away from the truck with the headlights left 
     on... is walking right towards her.

     Annie begins moving towards him, When they meet:

                      TOM
          I won't apologize for this. And I 
          won't hide it. Not for anybody.

                      ANNIE
          I won't ask you to.

     He takes her in his arms and they kiss.

     EXT. RANCH HOUSE - NIGHT

     Tom leads Annie to the front door. She waits as he unlocks it.

     INT. RANCH HOUSE, SECOND FLOOR, TOM'S ROOM - NIGHT

     Tom leads her to his room. Annie cups his grasp on her with 
     both hands. He opens the door for her, ushers her in, then 
     closes the door. He hangs his hat. She turns to him. They 
     embrace, surrendering to each other's passions.

                               DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. RANCH - DAWN

     Camera pas from Tom's window, bright with dawn, past his 
     desk upon which his classical music is playing, over to the 
     two lovers in bed, kissing and embracing. Then:

                      ANNIE
          Oh, God, what are we going to do? 
          I'm supposed to --

                      TOM
          Ssshhh...
               (she stops)
          Stand still, Annie. Takes what we've 
          got, just for now. Can you do that?

     Beat. She nods. The permission Tom is giving her acts like a 
     great burden being lifted, and for the time being, she 
     surrenders and accepts the gift of what they feel. They kiss.

     EXT. THE RANCH - DAY

     Since the ranch must continue, Tom and Annie move through a 
     day of ranch chores --

     -- TOM AND ANNIE CLEANING STALLS AND FEEDING THE HORSES.

     -- TOM IS TRYING TO SHOW ANNIE HOW HE HAS TO FIX SOMETHING. 
     ANNIE INTERRUPTING WITH HER OWN IDEAS... TOM TRIES TO EXPLAIN 
     BUT ANNIE KEEPS TALKING, EXCITED BY HER PLAN... TOM LAUGHS.

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - DAY

     ANNIE HAS UNPACKED HER COMPUTER AND HOOKED IT UP, SHOWING 
     TOM HOW TO USE IT. HE PUSHES THE THRONG BUTTON AND MAKES A 
     FRIGHTENED FACE... ANNIE SCREAMS, THEN LAUGHS AND HUGS HIM.

                               DISSOLVE TO:

     THEY ARE MAKING LOVE ON A BLANKET AMIDST OF THE MOVING BOXES IN 
     THE MIDDLE OF THE DAY.

     INT. KITCHEN, RANCH HOUSE - DAY

     -- ANNIE COOKING LUNCH IN THE KITCHEN, SEEING TOM WORKING WITH 
     SMOKEY...

     EXT. PASTURE - DAY

     -- THE TWO ARE EATING LUNCH IN THE PASTURE. THEY ARE TALKING 
     SERIOUSLY ABOUT SOMETHING... PERHAPS EVEN DISAGREEING... ANNIE 
     SHAKES HER HEAD, NOT WANTING TO LISTEN. THEY EAT IN SILENCE.

                               DISSOLVE TO:

     -- THEY ARE WALKING AND DISCUSSING, HOLDING HANDS... UNTIL TOM 
     WRAPS HIS ARM AROUND HER AND HOLDS HER CLOSER... ANNIE, BURYING 
     HER HEAD IN HIS BODY.

     EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DAY

     Tom and Annie, their horses packed with gear, ride across the 
     high mountain pasture through the grazing cattle...

     EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DAY

     Annie and Tom sit overlooking a breathtaking view. Tom is 
     showing her the rope trick... She looks down at their touching 
     fingers and he gently pulls the rope away, still knotted, and 
     without ever breaking their touch... Annie looks into his 
     eyes, understanding what this means, raises his hand to her 
     mouth and kisses it. She looks up at him with a curious 
     expression;

                      ANNIE
          Show me again.

                      TOM
          Annie!

                      ANNIE
          One more time.

     EXT. THE MOUNTAINS - DUSK

     Annie lays asleep in Tom's arms, under a blanket. He picks up 
     another blanket with his free hand and shimmies it under her 
     head, laying her down. She snuggles with the blanket and 
     keeps sleeping.

     Tom takes a moment to look at her as she sleeps, gently 
     brushing her hair away from her eyes. He's deeply in love 
     with this woman and wants to keep her with him. But there is 
     a sad resignation in his look. A confusion.

     He rises and walks to a stream nearby. He bends down to take 
     some water when he hears something. He looks up and sees on 
     the other side:

     A WILD HORSE giving birth to a foal in the tall grass. And a 
     WHITE STALLION steps in between Tom and the mare, as if 
     protecting her.

     Tom rises slowly to his feet. Then stands stock still. He and 
     the Stallion penetrate each other.

     Suddenly this beautiful, powerful Stallion rears -- violently. 
     Tom remains still, but clearly the horse is treating him as 
     an invader...

     It's as if the Whisperer is now being guided by the Horse 
     towards understanding. As Tom receives it, he remembers;

                      TOM (V.O.)
          Summers are short here, Annie. There 
          isn't much of a fall. Before you know 
          it, the roads are closed... the nights 
          get long.

     WE BEGIN TO FADE OUT ON TOM

                      ANNIE (V.O.)
          I don't care! We'd be together.

                      TOM (V.O.)
          Two people can't just be alone together 
          in the world. At least not us...

                      ANNIE (V.O.)
          I can't do this. I can't leave you...

     Voice-Overs have carried over into a...

                               DISSOLVE TO:

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - NIGHT

     Tom and Annie make love...

                      ANNIE (V.O.)
          I won't.

     But there is a difference in their lovemaking. There's a 
     slowness, a reverence... a sense of two people so bounded, that 
     they are outside of time... Their love is so strong it almost 
     feels like despair -- their need to connect has gone beyond 
     their bodies and into their spirits, for which there is no 
     earthly satisfaction.

     EXT. CREEK HOUSE - MORNING

     The sun has risen.

     INT. CREEK HOUSE - MORNING

     Annie awakens in bed and discovers she is alone. She looks 
     around for Tom. She rises and enters the other room to 
     discover:

     All her boxes and all her luggage have been removed.

     Her heart sinks. Tom re-enters, fully dressed, to get the 
     last box. He sees on her face a look of confusion and hurt.

                      TOM
          I figured, whenever you decided to 
          go, you'd be all set.

                      ANNIE
               (curt)
          How thoughtful of you. And what if 
          I decide not to go?

     Tom doesn't know how to respond. He looks away and bends down 
     to reach for the box when Annie commands:

                      ANNIE
          Leave me alone!

     Beat. They stand awkwardly for a moment, until;

                      TOM
               (pleadingly)
          Annie, please...

     Tom reaches to embrace her, but Annie attacks him. Punching 
     his chest... pulling at his shirt as Tom tries to put his 
     arms around her...

                      ANNIE
          NO!... NO!... YOU DON'T DECIDE 
          THIS!... NO!...

     Tom's heart is breaking as he manages to get his arms around 
     her and hold her... as she breaks down and softly, the rage 
     passes... Annie speaks softly.

                      TOM
               (struggling)
          I don't know any other way, Annie.

                      ANNIE
               (more adamant)
          Why?

     Suddenly;

                      TOM
          You think this is easy for me!?

     Annie is struck by the powerful sincerity of his words;

                      TOM
          It's just happened this way sometimes. 
          I can't explain it. But I look at you 
          and see Grace and I see Robert, and 
          no matter what you decide about him, 
          I just know this is right. Your life 
          isn't here and you know it.

     Annie looks into his eyes and asks, softly defiant;

                      ANNIE
          Then what have we been doing? I mean 
          what was the point?

                      TOM
               (confused by her question)
          The point was to love each other.

                      ANNIE
          Why?

     As if there has to be a result... Tom looks at her and says 
     with an almost innocent conviction:

                      TOM
          Because we had to... And I'll never 
          stop loving you, Annie. Here. Where 
          my life is.

     The simplicity, and truth, of it hits Annie strongly.

     Annie releases herself from him and turns away... despondent. 
     Realizing the utter truth and inevitability of what he says. 
     She starts shaking her head. Tom can't hear it... He reaches 
     for her;

                      TOM
          Annie...

     She turns back into his arms and they kiss passionately... 
     holding each other... as if for the last time.

     EXT. RANCH HOUSE - DAY

     Tom is escorting Pilgrim into the trailer attached to the 
     Suburban. He looks across the ranch to see the figure of 
     Annie, standing alone, perfectly still, in the pasture, 
     looking out to the horizon... (reminiscent of Tom earlier in 
     the film)

     EXT. THE PASTURE - DAY

     Tom approaches Annie from behind, stopping a few feet away.

                      TOM
          Annie?

     She doesn't answer... as if she has found her own private 
     place within her, at last... A place of strength. She looks as 
     if she knows what must be done... She hears him about to walk 
     away when she asks:

                      ANNIE
          Can we go for one more ride?

     Tom stops. Considers this. Then:

                      TOM
          Sure. I'll saddle them up.

     He exits. Not seeing the tears in Annie's eyes.

     INT. BARN - DAY

     Tom enters the barn slowly. He crosses to Rimrock's stall... 
     then stops. As if he is waiting. As if he knows...

     Then... he hears the sound of Annie's Suburban starting up. He 
     looks up and knows she's leaving. He waits.

     EXT. DOUBLE DIVIDE - CONTINUOUS

     Wide angle of Annie driving away in the Suburban with the 
     trailer.

     INT. SUBURBAN - CONTINUOUS

     Annie doesn't look back -- her eyes wet with tears -- but no 
     sobs.

     INT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

     Tom lowers his head. It is not his way to say goodbye. And he 
     is moved by Annie's knowing.

     EXT. HIGHWAYS & ROADS ACROSS AMERICA - DAYS & NIGHTS

     A MONTAGE of images of Annie traveling home...

     Across different terrains, we see Annie driving -- missing 
     Tom... thinking of what she will decide by the time she gets 
     home. Remembering IMAGES OF TOM:

     -- Riding on Rimrock and tipping his hat to her...

     -- Sitting in the pasture, staring at Pilgrim. Ignoring her.

     -- Seeing her arrive at the ranch for the very first time.

     EXT. A DIFFERENT HIGHWAY OR COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

     Annie drives, she continues remembering...

     -- She and Tom in the branding...

     -- She and Tom dancing around the camp fire at the cattle drive.

     -- She and Tom kissing in secrecy behind Hank's house the night 
     of the barn dance...

     EXT. ANOTHER HIGHWAY OR COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

     Annie continues driving and remembering;

     -- Annie and Tom coming towards each other that first night 
     after everyone had left the ranch...

     -- Tom opening the front door to the ranch house...

     SUDDENLY WE;

                                        CUT TO:

     INT. ROBERT'S HOUSE IN INDIA - A DAY REMEMBERED

     A much younger Annie waits, surrounded by luggage, as A DOOR 
     OPENS revealing a much younger, more vital, very handsome 
     Robert:

                      ROBERT
          Yes?

                      ANNIE
          Hi. Um, there doesn't seem to be any 
          hotel room available and someone told 
          me to come here and ask for "Tubab" 
          who might to have a place for me to 
          stay. Are you "Tubab"?

                      ROBERT
          No. I am a "tubab."

                      ANNIE
          What do you mean?

                      ROBERT
          Tubab means white man.

     Annie is first surprised, then embarrassed but Robert seems so 
     charming and his smile breaks into a laugh, that she just nods 
     and laughs herself.

     INT. ROBERT'S HOME IN INDIA - A NIGHT REMEMBERED

     Over a meal, Robert talks excitedly of his experiences. Annie 
     is captivated.

     INT. ROBERT'S BEDROOM IN INDIA - A NIGHT REMEMBERED

     After Annie and Robert have made love, Robert sleeps with his 
     arms wrapped around Annie. She lies awake, feeling safe and 
     loved.

                                   FADE OUT:

     EXT. LITTLE BIGHORN NATIONAL MONUMENT - TWILIGHT

     Annie stands where she stood when she and Grace stopped here on 
     their way to Montana...

     She removes from her pocket the KNOTTED LOOP he made for her, 
     and looks at it.

                                     DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT. MACLEAN CONNECTICUT HOME - DAY

     A car is driving up the driveway to the house. It stops.

     Robert and Grace get out as Annie exits from the front door. 
     She looks beautiful -- but in a completely different way than 
     ever before. There is a calm center to her. A softness and a 
     strength. She smiles and walks to meet them.

                      ANNIE
          Oh, I miss you. You look beautiful.

                      GRACE
          So do you.

                      ANNIE
          How's everything?

                      GRACE
          Good.

                      ANNIE
               (to Robert)
          Hi.

                      ROBERT
          Hi.

     They kiss as Grace watches.

                      ROBERT
          Was the trip okay?

                      ANNIE
          Mmm. I made good time.
               (to Grace)
          Pilgrim's in the back. I found a new 
          stable, but they can't take him until 
          tomorrow.

                      GRACE
          Great!

                      ANNIE
          Go ahead...

     Grace exits excitedly O.C. Annie and Robert face each other. 
     Robert doesn't know what to expect... but he softens when Annie 
     smiles:

                      ANNIE
          I have so much to tell you.

                      ROBERT
          You want to take a walk with me?

                      ANNIE
               (a little nervous)
          Where to?

                      ROBERT
               (smiles)
          I don't know. Let's just go and... 
          we'll see...

     Annie nods. He reaches for her hand, and Annie gives it 
     willingly... They begin to walk away from Camera... together.

     Annie begins to speak, telling him what we already know. How 
     he will react or what will happen, is unknown. But these two 
     people will no longer avoid their life together... somehow, 
     they will make the effort to face it together.

     As Camera Widens, we see included in the frame, Grace and 
     Pilgrim... as she strokes him and whispers in his ear... and 
     leads him for a walk...


                    THE END




