Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise) is part of an Impossible Missions Force (IMF) team led by Jim Phelps (Jon Voight) to prevent the theft of the non-official cover (NOC) list from the American embassy in Prague.
The mission goes hopelessly wrong, with several team members killed and the NOC list stolen.
Hunt sees Phelps, via Phelps' video glasses, being shot, and Phelps' wife Claire (Emmanuelle Béart) die in a car bomb, leaving him the only living member.
Hunt later regroups with IMF director Eugene Kittridge (Henry Czerny) to debrief, but learns that the job was a setup and the NOC list a fake by IMF to lure out a mole within IMF, who IMF believed would sell the NOC list to an arms dealer known as "Max" as part of "Job 314".
As Hunt is the only member left, Kittridge suspects him of being the mole, but Hunt creates a distraction to flee before his capture.

Hunt returns to the Prague safehouse and realizes "Job 314" refers to the Bible verse, Job 3:14, with "Job" as an agent of Max.
Hunt finds Claire at the safehouse, as she had escaped the car bomb in time and he is able to communicate with Max via online Bible forums, and arranges a meeting.
Hunt is taken to Max (Vanessa Redgrave), and warns her the NOC list she possesses has a tracking device that will lure the CIA there, while promising to deliver the real NOC list for $10 million and the identity of Job.
Hunt, Max and her agents escape just as the team arrives, and Max gives Hunt an upfront payment for the list.

Hunt recruits two disavowed IMF agents: computer expert Luther Stickell (Ving Rhames) and obsessive pilot Franz Krieger (Jean Reno).
The four successfully infiltrate CIA's headquarters in Langley, Virgina and steal the NOC list before fleeing to London, though their theft is detected by Kittridge.
Kittridge arranges for Hunt's mother and uncle to be falsely arrested for drug trafficking and provide wide media coverage of it, forcing Hunt to call Kittridge.
Hunt times the call to allow the CIA to trace him to London before hanging up, but when he is done, Hunt is surprised to find Phelps nearby.

As Phelps recounts the story of how he survived the shooting, Hunt realizes to himself that Phelps is the likely mole and Max's Job.
Hunt also suspects Krieger had killed the other IMF members on the Prague job, but is unsure of Claire's role.
Hunt makes arrangements with Max to exchange the NOC list aboard the TGV high-speed train to Paris the next day, while sending tickets to the train to Kittridge.

On the train, Hunt remotely directs Max to the list.
Max verifies the list and gives Hunt the keycode to a briefcase containing his payment along with Job in the luggage car.
Stickell uses a jamming device to prevent Max from uploading the data to her servers.
Meanwhile, Claire moves to the luggage car and finds Phelps there, giving him the code Ethan got for the money and asserting they should take it to frame Hunt.
Hunt reveals himself as wearing a Phelps disguise.
The real Phelps arrives, and takes the money at gunpoint.
Hunt dons a pair of video glasses that relays Phelps' existence to Kittridge, proving Hunt innocent of being Job and the mole.

With his cover blown, Phelps tries to escape with the money; Claire intervenes but Phelps kills her and climbs to the roof of the train, where Krieger is waiting with a helicopter with a tether.
Hunt and Phelps fight, and Hunt is able to connect the tether to the train itself, forcing Krieger to pilot the helicopter into Channel Tunnel after the train.
Hunt is able to place a piece of explosive chewing gum - a relic of the Prague mission - to destroy the helicopter, killing Phelps and Krieger.
Aboard the train, Kittridge arrests Max and recovers the NOC list before it could be sent.
Afterwards, Kittridge reinstates Hunt and Stickell as IMF agents, but Hunt resigns.
As he flies home, a flight attendant approaches him and asks, through a coded phrase, if he is ready to take on a new mission.