Elijah Price (Samuel L. Jackson) is born with Type I osteogenesis imperfecta, a rare disease in which bones break easily.
Drawing on what he has read in comic books during his many hospital stays, Price theorizes that if he is frail at one extreme, then perhaps there is someone "unbreakable" at the opposite extreme.

Years later, security guard David Dunn (Bruce Willis) is also searching for meaning in his life.
He gave up a promising football career to marry his love Audrey (Robin Wright) after they were involved in an auto accident.
However, their marriage is dissolving, to the distress of their young son Joseph (Spencer Treat Clark).
Returning from a job interview in New York, David is the sole survivor of a horrific train wreck that killed 131 passengers, sustaining no injuries himself.
He is contacted by the adult Elijah, who proposes to a disbelieving David that he is a real instance of the kind of person after whom comic-book superheroes are modeled.
David tries to ignore him, but Elijah stalks him and his wife, trying to get his attention.
To relieve his family from further distress, David finally agrees to hear Elijah, and begins to test himself.
While lifting weights with Joseph, they discover that his physical strength is far beyond what he previously thought, benching 350 pounds approx and Joseph begins to idolize his father and believe he is a superhero.

Joseph confronts some bullies at school, thinking he might share his father's abilities, but is injured instead.
David tries to console his son by saying that Elijah is wrong and that he is just as normal as everyone else.
Joseph threatens to fire David's loaded pistol at him, claiming that his father would not die.
David denies this but talks him out of the deed by threatening to move to New York.

Under Elijah's influence, David develops extra-sensory perception, previously thought to be unusual insight into human behavior, with which he can glimpse immoral acts committed by people he touches.

David's faith in Elijah is shaken when he remembers an incident from his childhood in which he almost drowned.
However, Elijah suggests that the incident highlights his one weakness, water.
David examines the wreckage of the train crash that he survived.
He has a flashback of the car accident that ended his athletics career, and remembers that he was unharmed and that he ripped a door off the car in order to save Audrey, a memory he had long repressed.
David used the accident as an excuse to quit football, because Audrey hated the sport and did not want him to play.
At Elijah's suggestion, David walks through a crowd in a Philadelphia train station and senses crimes perpetrated by strangers who brush past him: a jewel robbery, a racist hate crime, and a rape.
The worst offender is a sadistic janitor holding a family hostage and torturing them inside their home.
On a rainy night, David follows the janitor to the victims' house.
He frees the children, but is ambushed by the janitor who throws him off a balcony into a swimming pool.
David nearly drowns but is rescued by the children.
He grapples with the janitor, ultimately strangling him.
That night, he is reconciled with Audrey.
The following morning, he secretly shows the newspaper article of his anonymous heroic act to his son.

David attends an exhibition at Elijah's comic book art gallery and meets Elijah's mother (Charlayne Woodard).
After talking with Elijah in the back room of his studio, David shakes his hand and receives visions indicating that Elijah orchestrated many of the fatal disasters he had mentioned including David's train accident, causing hundreds of deaths.
Elijah insists the deaths were justified as a means to find David.
He explains that his purpose in life is to be the archvillain to David's hero.

A screen caption reveals that David exposed Elijah to the police.
Elijah was convicted of engineering the disasters and committed to an institution for the criminally insane.