The galaxy is in a civil war and spies for the Rebel Alliance have stolen plans to the Galactic Empire's Death Star, a heavily armed and armored space station capable of annihilating an entire planet.
Rebel leader Princess Leia is in possession of the plans, but her ship is captured by Imperial forces under the command of the evil lord Darth Vader.
Before she is captured, Leia hides the plans in the memory of an Astromech droid called R2-D2, along with a holographic recording.
The small droid flees to the surface of the desert planet Tatooine with fellow protocol droid C-3PO.

The droids are quickly captured by Jawa traders, who sell the pair to moisture farmers Owen and Beru Lars and their nephew, Luke Skywalker.
While Luke is cleaning R2-D2, he accidentally triggers part of Leia's message, in which she requests help from Obi-Wan Kenobi.
The only "Kenobi" Luke knows of is an old hermit named Ben Kenobi who lives in the nearby hills.
The next morning Luke finds R2-D2, who fled the night before to seek Obi-Wan, and meets Ben Kenobi, who reveals himself to be Obi-Wan.
Obi-Wan tells Luke of his days as a Jedi Knight, one of a faction of former galactic peacekeepers who were wiped out by the Empire.
Contrary to his uncle's statements, Luke learns that his father Anakin Skywalker fought alongside Obi-Wan as a Jedi Knight before he was betrayed and killed by Vader, Obi-Wan's former pupil who turned to the "dark side of the Force".
Ben then gives Luke his father's lightsaber.

Obi-Wan views Leia's complete message in which she begs him to take the Death Star plans to her home planet of Alderaan for her father to retrieve and analyze.
He then asks Luke to accompany him and learn the ways of the Force.
Luke initially refuses, but changes his mind after discovering that Imperial stormtroopers have destroyed his home and killed his aunt and uncle in search of C-3PO and R2-D2.
Obi-Wan and Luke hire smuggler Han Solo and his Wookiee first mate Chewbacca to transport them on their ship, the Millennium Falcon.

Upon the Falcon's arrival at Alderaan, they find that the planet has been destroyed under the orders of the Death Star's commanding officer Grand Moff Tarkin to interrogate Leia into revealing the hidden base of the Rebellion and to demonstrate the Death Star's power.
The Falcon is captured by the nearby Death Star's tractor beam and brought into its hangar bay.
While Obi-Wan goes off to disable the tractor beam, Luke discovers that Leia is imprisoned on board and, with the help of Han and Chewbacca, rescues her.
After several harrowing escapes, they make their way back to the Falcon, but Obi-Wan engages in a lightsaber duel with Vader at the cost of his own life.
The Falcon escapes the Death Star but the Empire has placed a tracking device on the ship to follow them to the rebels' hidden base on Yavin IV.

The rebels analyze the Death Star plans, disclosing a vulnerable exhaust port leading to the station's main reactor.
Luke joins the assault team, but Han collects his reward for the rescue and plans to leave despite Luke asking him to stay.
The rebels suffer heavy losses after several failed attack runs, leaving Luke one of the few surviving pilots.
Vader and a group of TIE fighters are about to destroy Luke's ship, but Han Solo returns and destroys the TIE Fighters and the blast sends Vader spiraling away.
Luke (with spiritual guidance from Obi-Wan to use the Force) successfully destroys the Death Star seconds before it can fire on the rebel base.
Luke and Han are later awarded medals by Leia for their heroism.