The film opens outside of Goffs, California in the Mojave Desert.
A 1964 Chevrolet Malibu driven by Dr. J. Frank Parnell is pulled over by a policeman.
The cop opens the trunk, sees a blinding flash of white light, and he disintegrates leaving only his boots behind.

Otto Maddox, a young punk rocker living in Los Angeles, gets fired from his boring job as a supermarket stock clerk.
Most of the food in the store is labeled in the old-fashioned, black-and-white style for generics.
Even his circle of punk friends is no solace, as a girl he is interested in makes out with his best friend instead.
Depressed and broke, Otto wanders the streets when a man named Bud drives up and offers him $10 to drive his old lady's car out of the neighborhood, because he worries it will be stolen.

Otto follows Bud in the car to the "Helping Hand Acceptance Corporation" (a small automobile repossession agency).
Otto refuses to join Bud as a repossession agent, or "repo man".
He goes to his parents' house and asks if they have any food.
In the fridge, he finds an open generic can labeled "Food", which he eagerly devours.
He learns that his burned-out, pot-smoking, ex-hippie parents have donated the money they promised him for finishing school to a crooked televangelist, he decides to take the job since it pays cash.

Otto soon learns that, as Bud had told him, "the life of a repo man is always intense."
He enjoys the fast life style, the drug use, the real-life car chases, the thrill of hot-wiring cars, and the good pay.
The repo men often drink generic beer, which is labeled simply as "Beer".
At one point, Bud says to Otto, "Let's go for a drink," and they buy two six packs of generic cans labeled as "Drink".
His old lifestyle seems boring by comparison.

After repossessing a flashy red sedan, Otto sees a girl named Leila running down the street.
He gives her a ride to the United Fruitcake Outfit, where they have sex in the backseat.
On the way, Leila shows Otto pictures of aliens that she says are in the trunk of a Chevy Malibu.
She claims that they are dead but still dangerous because of the radiation that they emit.
Meanwhile, Helping Hand and its repo rivals receive a $20,000 bounty notice for the Malibu.
Most assume that the car is drug-related, because the bounty is so far above the actual worth of the car.

Parnell finally arrives in LA, but he is unable to meet up with his waiting UFO compatriots because of a team of government agents lead by a woman with a metal hand that looks identical to Michael Jackson's sequined glove.
When he pulls into a gas station, the Rodriguez brothers, a rival repo firm, nab the car.
They stop for sodas because the car's trunk is so hot.
While they are out of the car, a trio of Otto's punk friends who are on a crime spree steal the Malibu.

After they visit a night club, Parnell tricks the punks into opening the trunk, killing one of them, and allowing him to take the car back.
Later, he picks up Otto and drives aimlessly before collapsing from all the radiation he has been exposed to in the car.
Otto takes the car back to Helping Hand and leaves it in the lot.
The car is stolen from the lot, and a chase ensues with all the characters involved.
By this time, the car is glowing bright green because it is so irradiated.
Eventually, the car makes its way back to the Helping Hand lot, where anyone who approaches it bursts into flames.
The lunatic Miller, who works at Helping Hand, is able to get in the car and slide behind the wheel.
He beckons Otto into the Malibu, which lifts straight up into the air.
The film closes with the car zooming around downtown LA and then off into the stars.