During the 1970s, FBI agent Ray Levoi is assigned to aid in the investigation of a political murder; that of Leo Fast Elk (Allan R.J. Joseph), on a Native American reservation in South Dakota.
Agent William Dawes, Levoi's superior, has chosen him for the task due to his mixed Sioux heritage which might assist in the inquiry as they interview local townspeople.
Levoi's new partner, agent Frank Coutelle, has diligently worked on the probe looking to apprehend a prime suspect: Aboriginal Rights Movement radical Jimmy Looks Twice.
While helping Coutelle track down the suspect, Levoi gradually becomes sensitized to Indian issues, partially from his attraction to Maggie Eagle Bear, a political Native American activist and schoolteacher.
[3]

Mocked and ridiculed by the locals (being called a "Washington Redskin"), including tribal police officer Walter Crow Horse, Levoi finds that he has an unaccountable standing with some of the tribal elders such as Grandpa Sam Reaches.
The natives recognize Levoi as "Thunderheart", a Native American hero slain at the Wounded Knee Massacre in the past, and now reincarnated to deliver them from their current troubles.
[3]

Levoi comes to suspect there is a conspiracy and cover-up involving the small town, much to Coutelle's anger.
Levoi and Crow Horse later discover that a local government sponsored plan to strip mine uranium on the reservation is at the root of the killings.
The mining is polluting the water supply and fueling a bloody conflict between the reservation's anti-government ruling council and the pro-government natives who, led by tribal council president Jack Milton, are not above using violence to further their aims.
Milton does not own the land where the mining occurs, but gets kickbacks from the leases.
Coutelle is later revealed to be part of the scandal to silence the opposition and help broker the land deal.
Soon after finding Maggie Eagle Bear and former convict Richard Yellow Hawk murdered, a showdown ensues between Coutelle and pro-government collaborators against Levoi, Crow Horse and the anti-government activists.
Coutelle becomes outnumbered by the armed resistance and is later investigated on charges of corruption.
[3]