"AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN PARIS"

                                            by

                          Anthony Waller, Tim Burns & Tom Stern

                              Based on characters created by

                                       John Landis

                

               BLACKNESS.

               Pink Floyd's "Dark Side of the Moon (Brain Damage)" plays as 
               WHITE TITLES appear over black. As the song crescendos at 
               the first chorus, SUNLIGHT flares over the lunar horizon and 
               a crescent sliver of THE MOON is illuminated - huge, filling 
               the screen from top to bottom. We're in space, circling around 
               from the dark side until a HUGE FULL MOON fills the screen 
               with whiteness - TITLES continue as we pull back from the 
               moon, into the earth's atmosphere, through CLOUDS, until we 
               reveal

               PARIS AT NIGHT

               We come to rest on an ancient, vaguely wolf-like GARGOYLE 
               high atop a gothic cathedral in the Latin Quarter - a maze 
               of narrow, twisting streets - desolate at this late hour. 
               Clouds move over the moon. End TITLES. The song fades. A 
               THUNDER CRACK. Rain drops spatter on the church's metal roof. 
               Water trickles out of the gargoyle's mouth. We follow the 
               STREAM OF WATER down to street level where it falls onto

               A YOUNG COUPLE

               wobbling down the street, sharing a bottle of wine. They 
               open an umbrella and stand underneath it, smooching and 
               giggling. We follow the STREAM OF WATER from their umbrella 
               to the street, where it swirls into drain holes in the MANHOLE 
               COVER that they're standing on. Suddenly...

               CLANG!! The manhole cover pushes up under their feet. He 
               flinches - bites down on her lip, drawing blood. She yelps.

               CLANG!! The cover thrusts up again. They lose their balance, 
               fall to the ground - the wine bottle smashes. The manhole 
               cover flips off it's hole. Horrified, they scramble from it. 
               Then, out of it comes...

               TERRENCE MCDERMOTT

               a fiftyish college professor in a turtleneck and old tweed 
               jacket, clutching a well worn leather shoulder bag and gasping 
               for breath. He's balding, with longish gray hair and intense 
               eyes. He climbs out of the hole, replaces the cover and dashes 
               off desperately through the rain, looking back over his 
               shoulder as he disappears into a narrow alley.

               The couple watch him go, befuddled. She touches her hand to 
               her lip and looks at the blood. She slaps her boyfriend upside 
               the head.

                                     GIRL
                         Idiot!

               The guy shrugs. Then...

               BAM!! The manhole cover explodes off the hole, sails twenty 
               feet into the air and clatters to the ground some distance 
               away. We cut to the couple's horrified reactions as they 
               watch something emerge from the hole.

               ON A NEARBY STREET

               Terrence, running, hears the couple's horrible SCREAMS echo 
               through the twisting streets. He comes to A STONE STAIRWAY 
               and hurries down it, four steps at a time. At the bottom he 
               turns right and arrives at a star shaped five way 
               intersection.

               A low, muffled growl stops him in his tracks. He stands in 
               the rain, panting, looking around at the dark maze of streets, 
               trying to pinpoint the source of the sound.

                                     TERRENCE
                              (American accent - to 
                              himself)
                         Where are you, you sick bastard...

               A TAXI appears a block away. He waves his arms and calls out 
               in a very good French accent.

                                     TERRENCE
                         Taxi! Ici, s'il vous plait!

               It turns and drives towards him. He starts off towards it. 
               He glances over his shoulder - sees nothing. He's twenty 
               feet from the taxi. He smiles. Then -

               He's jerked violently downward into A STORM DRAIN. He screams. 
               Some monstrous force pulls him down, his bones crushing as 
               his body is forced through the too-small drain.

               The CABBY gets out and runs up to the drain, where Terrence's 
               thrashing upper body is quickly disappearing into the hole. 
               Horrible growls and sounds of ripping flesh emanate from the 
               sewer. BLOOD spurts through the grate. Terrence reaches up 
               to the cabby, SCREAMING for help.

                                     TERRENCE
                         My God! Help! Au securs!

               The terror stricken cabby shakes his head and starts backing 
               up. Terrence lunges forth and grabs the cabby's leg. The 
               cabby screams and tries to get loose. He falls to the ground 
               and is dragged towards the hole. He grabs the bumper of his 
               cab and strains to pull himself away, kicking at Terrence's 
               hand with his free foot.

               LIGHTS come on in an adjacent building. A MAN in pajamas 
               runs out into the rain. The cabby loses his grip on the bumper 
               and he and Terrence are jerked closer to the sewer but the 
               man grabs the cabby's hand and pulls. Some OTHER RESIDENTS 
               gather on the sidewalks. A police car SIREN approaches.

               Something gives and the man in pajamas falls backwards into 
               a puddle. The small crowd looks down and sees TERRENCE, pulled 
               free from the hole, moaning semi-consciously. We move down 
               his body, past the bleeding stumps where his legs used to 
               be, and follow the BLOOD as it swirls into EDDIES of rain 
               water and flows into the BLACKNESS of the storm drain.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               A FIERCE BULL

               charges through the matador's red muletta, snorting blood. 
               The CROWD goes wild. We're in a bull fight arena, under the 
               blazing Spanish sun.

               The camera dollies past cheering SPANIARDS and finds a small 
               group of AMERICAN STUDENTS, early twenties.

                                     GORD
                         Man. I can't believe I paid good 
                         money to watch a guy in tight pants 
                         kill a cow.

                                     SHERRY
                         Disgusting. This makes American 
                         Gladiators look highbrow.

               The camera settles on ANDY MCDERMOTT, 22, as he joins the 
               crowd in a rousing cheer, waving a bottle of wine with native 
               gusto. He's good looking in a scrappy sort of way, with 
               shoulder length brown hair, grungy plaid shirt, khakis, and 
               glasses.

                                     ANDY
                         Whoo! Ole!
                              (to his friends)
                         Man, you guys are losers! This is 
                         poetry! Death in the afternoon, a 
                         tragic dance of man and beast, just 
                         like Hemingway said. God, Spain is 
                         it! These people know how to live.

                                     SHERRY
                         I still say we should've gone to 
                         Paris.

                                     ANDY
                         Paris!? Ug! If I wanted to be in an 
                         overpriced, overrated city full of 
                         obnoxious assholes I would've stayed 
                         in New York! Please!

               Another friend, MIKE, joins them.

                                     GORD
                         Where've you been? Beatin' off in 
                         your sombrero again?

               Mike swats Steve in the head playfully and grabs the wine 
               from Andy. He hands him a crumpled telegram.

                                     MIKE
                         McDermott, your dad sent this to the 
                         pensione. Supposed to be urgent.

                                     ANDY
                              (concerned)
                         What's it about?

                                     MIKE
                              (defensive)
                         I didn't read it.

               Andy takes the telegram. Mike leans in close to Sherrie and 
               whispers the gossip.

                                     MIKE
                         His uncle is in the hospital.

               Andy reads the message. His face falls. For a second, he's 
               silent. His friends see something's wrong.

                                     GORD
                         Hey, man. You okay? What is it?

               Andy grabs the wine away from Mike and takes a long swig. IN 
               THE BULLRING - the matador plunges his sword between the 
               bull's shoulder blades and makes the kill.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               INT. PARIS HOSPITAL EMERGENCY WARD - EARLY EVENING

               BLOOD splatters on white paper. Pull back to see a CHEF with 
               a cut finger standing at the admitting counter, dripping 
               blood on a form. The uptight Parisian NURSE scolds him and 
               pulls out a new form.

               ANDY, lugging his back pack, trudges through the sliding 
               glass doors marked "St. Severin Hospital". Bleary eyed, hung 
               over, burdened by a heavy backpack and carrying the crumpled 
               telegram, he approaches ANOTHER NURSE at the counter.

                                     ANDY
                         Um, excuse me... hello...

               A STOUT WOMAN with a POODLE charges in front of Andy and 
               launches into a loud French argument with the nurse over the 
               hospital's "human's only" admission policy.

                                     WOMAN
                              (French)
                         Pitou needs a real doctor! He's 
                         melancholy!

                                     ANDY
                         Hey, wait a minute...

               Andy tries to push his way back in, but the shrill little 
               dog yaps at him. Andy grabs his aching "hangover head" in 
               agony. The bleeding chef walks away, dripping, leaving the 
               other nurse free. Andy approaches her. She has her head down 
               in some paperwork.

                                     ANDY
                         Pardon... Excusez moi. 'Allo.

               Without looking up, she holds up a "please wait" finger. 
               Andy sighs. The poodle yaps at him again. He winces and tries 
               to get the nurse's attention.

                                     ANDY
                              (to Nurse)
                         Umm...

               She raises her finger sharply and glares at him. She goes 
               back to her paperwork. Andy starts chatting politely with 
               her, pretending she's responding.

                                     ANDY
                         So, you ever been to Spain? You'd 
                         love it. It's friendly, sunny, 
                         cheap... And you'd be the only raving 
                         bitch there instead of just one in 
                         the crowd up here.

               MARCEL BOULARD, a short middle aged cop in a rumpled coat 
               approaches. He taps Andy on the shoulder.

                                     MARCEL
                         Andrew Mc-dair-mo?

                                     ANDY
                         That's McDermott, but yeah.

               Marcel flashes his badge.

                                     MARCEL
                         Detective Boulard. We've been 
                         expecting you. This is Inspector 
                         Leduc.

               LEDUC, in his fifties, taller, heavy set, droopy mustache, 
               nods gruffly and starts towards the elevator, motioning for 
               them to follow.

                                     MARCEL
                         He's in charge but, uh, between you 
                         and me, my English is better.
                              (they hurry to catch 
                              up with LeDuc)
                         This way... So you're from New York 
                         eh? I love those Hill Street Blues...

                                     ANDY
                         Right. Listen, my uncle, it's not 
                         serious is it? Did he eat some bad 
                         snails? Slip on the bidet? What?

               They step into the elevator as LeDuc holds the door open. 
               Marcel and LeDuc trade uneasy glances. LeDuc sighs.

                                     LEDUC
                         Merde.

                                     MARCEL
                         He says -

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah okay. My French isn't that bad.

               INT. HOSPITAL ROOM

               TERRENCE lies comatose under a clear plastic oxygen tent. An 
               ORDERLY changes the dressing on his bloody stumps. A NURSE 
               fiddles with the vast array of bleeping, burbling, sucking, 
               life support machinery.

               Andy, dumb struck, watches from a few paces away. Marcel, 
               pad in hand, asks him questions. LeDuc stays in the 
               background, listening and studying Andy intently.

                                     ANDY
                         Jesus...

                                     MARCEL
                         How well did, er, do you know him?

                                     ANDY
                         Not too well. He taught at the 
                         Sorbonne, right? Dad always calls 
                         him his "hippie brother". Did some 
                         work with Timothy Leary I think, and - 
                         Is he... is he going to die?

                                     MARCEL
                         No. The doctors say the machines 
                         should keep him going a long time. 
                         But basically he is, how you say, a 
                         legume.

                                     ANDY
                         Legume? You mean, a vegetable?

                                     MARCEL
                         Vegetable, right. My mistake. It 
                         seems he was attacked by a maniac, 
                         maybe two or three maniacs, just 
                         after midnight. yesterday. They fled 
                         into the tunnels beneath Paris, that's 
                         all we know...

                                     ANDY
                         What do you mean, maniacs?

                                     MARCEL
                         Well, here's what I think happened. 
                         A chemistry professor goes to a bad 
                         part of town late at night. Why? 
                         Perhaps he's making a few francs on 
                         the side. The psychedelic drug market 
                         is big these days. He gets mixed up 
                         with a bad crowd and, like they say, 
                         if you lie with dogs, you get fleas.

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah, well, these fleas must have 
                         teeth like fuckin' chain saws.

               BEEP BEEP! Something's wrong with uncle Terrence's machinery. 
               The IV bottle is sputtering and bubbling, the EKG monitor is 
               flashing. The orderlies snap into action and pull the curtain 
               shut, waving "no problem" to Andy and Marcel. Marcel leads 
               Andy away, trying to calm him down.

                                     MARCEL
                         Maybe we should go now. You must be 
                         very tired. We'll call if any new -

                                     ANDY
                         I can't believe this. Why don't you 
                         go down in the tunnels and find the 
                         goddamn... animals that attacked my 
                         uncle?

                                     MARCEL
                         Andy, it's not so easy. There are 
                         hundreds of kilometers of tunnels 
                         under Paris. It's a whole other city, 
                         crawling with drug addicts, lunatics, 
                         skinheads... It's no man's land.

               Andy's about to protest when LeDuc steps in and hands him 
               uncle Terrence's leather bag.

                                     LEDUC
                         Here.

                                     MARCEL
                         Your uncle was carrying this. The 
                         keys to his apartment are in there. 
                         I talked to his assistant, Madame 
                         Flocquet. You'll be staying there a 
                         while?

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah. I guess so.
                              (they walk him to the 
                              elevator)
                         Did he say anything? Before the coma?

                                     MARCEL
                         Just the name of this hospital, St. 
                         Severin. He repeated it a few times 
                         then he lost consciousness.

                                     ANDY
                         Why would he pick this one?

                                     MARCEL
                         I don't know. There were others much 
                         closer. He was religious?

                                     ANDY
                         Not that I know.

                                     MARCEL
                         Well, when you're about to pop off, 
                         what have you got to lose? Thanks 
                         for your help.

               Andy's dumfounded at Marcel's lack of tact. The elevator 
               doors start to close. LeDuc nods "good-bye". Marcel leans in 
               and sneaks in one last comment.

                                     MARCEL
                         And remember Andy, let's be careful 
                         out there. Heh-heh... Ouch!

               The elevator doors knock him on the head as they close. Andy 
               shakes his head.

                                     ANDY
                              (to himself)
                         Inspector Clouseau, on the case. 
                         Great.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. TERRENCE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

               Andy opens the gate of this beautiful 19th century building 
               and walks through THE COURTYARD to the main entrance. A POODLE 
               yaps at him. The dog is in the open doorway of the Concierge's 
               apartment, which opens into the courtyard. The nosy concierge, 
               MADAME CHRETIEN calls the dog, LULU, back in and shuts the 
               door.

               Andy enters the dark LOBBY, finds the timed auto shut-off 
               light switch and turns it on. He boards the old fashioned 
               wire cage elevator and presses the button for #4. McDermott. 
               The elevator ascends painstakingly slowly. Andy resigns 
               himself to waiting, thumbs through his uncle's date book.

               Andy turns to the day Uncle Terrence was attacked. A circled, 
               cryptic entry at the bottom of the page reads "Meet Claude, 
               Medusa - 11:00". Andy wrinkles his brow. At this second, the 
               light goes out.

               Andy ascends the rest of the way in darkness. The doors open 
               on the fourth floor. He gets out and finds his way to the 
               apartment. He tries a key in the lock. It won't turn. He 
               jiggles it. No luck. He goes through this with two more keys, 
               grumbling under his breath. Finally he finds the right one. 
               He pushes the door open and gasps.

               He's face to face with a scary TRIBAL MASK hanging in the 
               entrance way. It startles him for a second.

                                     ANDY
                         This must be the place.

               INT. TERRENCE'S APARTMENT

               Andy walks in and sets down his bags. A gun COCKS. A young 
               woman's voice screams at him in French.

                                     YOUNG WOMAN
                              (in French)
                         Who are you!? What do you want!?

               He turns to see SERAFINE, a beautiful young woman, around 
               22, casually dressed and aiming a pistol at his head. He 
               drops the shoulder bag and reaches for the ceiling.

                                     ANDY
                         Don't shoot! Jesus... uh... Je 
                         m'appelle Andy. McDermott. Je suis 
                         le... um, shit...

               It dawns on her. She drops the gun to her side, embarrassed.

                                     SERAFINE
                              (in English)
                         Oh fuck, you are his nephew...

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah, that's the word. And you are?

                                     SERAFINE
                         Serafine Flocquet. I work for your 
                         uncle.

                                     ANDY
                         You? You're Madame Flocquet? I 
                         pictured a fat lady with an apron, 
                         not - I don't know - La Femme Nikita.

               Serafine puts the gun away in a drawer.

                                     SERAFINE
                         It sounded like someone picking the 
                         lock. After what happened, I guess I 
                         am a little nervous.

               She lights a cigarette.

                                     ANDY
                         Sure. I can follow that.

                                     SERAFINE
                         It's a fucking nightmare, isn't it?

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah. True. The cops weren't much 
                         help either. Their theory is he was 
                         moonlighting as a drug dealer or 
                         something. Make sense to you?

                                     SERAFINE
                         Police. They have their head in their 
                         asshole and they still can't find 
                         shit.

                                     ANDY
                         Well put. So, what exactly has uncle 
                         Terrence been up to lately?

               As he speaks, he scans the apartment. It's cluttered with an 
               overwhelming assortment of anthropological oddities from 
               around the globe, medieval illustrations, molecular models, 
               and an artsy periodic table that's been used as a dart board.

                                     SERAFINE
                         He's doing a book with Professor 
                         Roussel, about medieval chemistry. I 
                         was just transcribing his notes onto 
                         the computer and - oh shit!

               She races out of the room. Andy follows after her.

               INT. TERRENCE'S STUDY

               She runs in and finds the computer locked up. She smacks it 
               a few times, clicks the mouse, taps the keyboard. No response.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Salots! Shitfucker!

                                     ANDY
                              (reacts to her loose 
                              grasp of American 
                              slang)
                         What?

                                     SERAFINE
                         If you leave it for more than a few 
                         minutes it locks up. Now I must reboot 
                         and type a dozen fucking passwords. 
                         He was security crazy.

               She flicks a switch on the back of the computer, rebooting 
               it. Andy pauses to look at some nearby photos of his uncle.

                                     ANDY
                         I still can't get over it. The cops 
                         said it was a "maniac", but he looked 
                         like, I don't know, like he'd gone 
                         through a combine harvester or... 
                         something.

               Serafine gets kind of emotional at the thought...

                                     SERAFINE
                         They wouldn't let me see him. Family 
                         only. I told them, Terry was almost 
                         like a father to me, you know?

               Andy reacts to her use of the informal "Terry"...

                                     ANDY
                         Depends. Was "Terry" a father like 
                         Ward Cleaver or a father like Woody 
                         Allen?

               A beat. She grasps his meaning. She's offended. She starts 
               typing on the computer, giving him the cold shoulder.

                                     SERAFINE
                         You must not have known him very 
                         well. He's not like that.

                                     ANDY
                         Hey, Sorry if I was out of line.

                                     SERAFINE
                         You were. I have work to do. The 
                         publisher wants the transcripts by 
                         Monday. Go. Make yourself at home.

                                     ANDY
                         Fine. My mistake. You know, I'm gonna 
                         be a writer myself some day.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Uh-huh. Good for you.

               Andy sees he's sunk. He heads for the door, but something on 
               the wall catches his eye. A small flyer on the bulletin board 
               with a big drawing of Medusa. He takes it down.

                                     ANDY
                         Medusa... What's this? some kind of 
                         club?

                                     SERAFINE
                         It's nothing. A stupid party. Not 
                         really a night club, it's, uh...

                                     ANDY
                         Like an underground club?

                                     SERAFINE
                         Yes. It's a bad place. Weird people. 
                         Strange things go on.

                                     ANDY
                         And who's Claude?

               Serafine looks at him hard, questioning.

                                     ANDY
                         I looked through my uncle's date 
                         book. Writer's curiosity.

               She points to a paperback on the desk. It's French, with a 
               psychedelic cover depicting a man, half King Louis XIV, half 
               witch doctor. The title, (in French) "History Inside Out - 
               Psychic Illumination Through the Ages" by Dr. Claude Roussel. 
               A picture on the back shows an academic looking Claude in a 
               tweed jacket, with gray hair.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Professor Claude Rousel. The one 
                         your uncle was working with. He 
                         teaches cultural history.

                                     ANDY
                         In an underground club? I'd like to 
                         see that.

               He shoves the book in his back pocket. Serafine's emphatic.

                                     SERAFINE
                         I'm serious. There's nothing for you 
                         down there. It's dangerous.

                                     ANDY
                         Come on. I'm from New York - the 
                         "shoot me" state. Don't wait up.

               He starts for the door, She spins him around by the sleeve.

                                     SERAFINE
                              (suddenly quite angry)
                         What good can you do? Why are you 
                         being so fucking stupid?

                                     ANDY
                              (getting fired up)
                         Maybe I didn't know him like you 
                         did. But he's my uncle. And I owe it 
                         to him to get some answers. It's a 
                         quest like, uh, Hemingway, the Old 
                         Man and The Sea. Except instead of 
                         an old man I'm a young man, and 
                         instead of the sea, it's a bunch of 
                         tunnels under Paris. And instead of 
                         a big fish it's... who knows? That's 
                         what I'm going to find out. Au revoir.

               He walks out of the office. She calls after him.

                                     SERAFINE
                         You're a fucking lunatic!

               The front door slams. She looks after him, incredulous.

                                     SERAFINE
                              (French)
                         God damned Americans.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. RUE D'ENFER - NIGHT

               A MEDUSA HEAD is carved in the stone above the doorway of a 
               crumbling old facade in a rundown Parisian neighborhood. 
               Andy tries the front door. It's locked. There's no sounds or 
               signs of life.

                                     ANDY
                              (to himself)
                         Some party.

               Andy starts off, then pauses as three PARTY GOERS approach 
               the door. They're "modern-primitives" - tribal tattoos, 
               pierced noses, and weird beaded hair. One fishes a key from 
               the Medusa's mouth, opens the door, and lets the group in.

               Andy slips in behind them. One GUY in the group looks Andy 
               over and mutters something in French to his friends. They 
               snigger amongst themselves and walk to a door across the 
               foyer. Andy follows, a few paces behind, through the door, 
               down some stairs, into

               A DILAPIDATED BASEMENT

               Lit with a few candles. They walk past an old boiler, through 
               another door, into

               A NARROW STONE SPIRAL STAIRCASE

               They proceed down the ancient stairway, also lit only by the 
               occasional candle placed on the steps. They reach the bottom 
               of the steps and enter a dark, drippy stone tunnel, still 
               lit by candles. Some rats scurry away through the puddles 
               under Andy's feet.

               Candles lead the way through the maze of intersecting tunnels. 
               Some graffiti scratched in the wall catches Andy's eye: "Jean 
               Philippe 1803". He pauses to look at it for and loses the 
               group ahead of him. He follows the candles on his own, turning 
               right, left, and left again. A loud, muffled bass beat gets 
               louder. He rounds the corner into

               THE WILD UNDERGROUND PARTY SPACE

               In an open cavern, lit with torches and strobe lights. Two 
               hundred people are gyrating to eerie techno-tribal dance 
               music. It's a weird crowd, mostly young modern primitive 
               pierced and grungy RAVERS, many wearing day-glo tribal face 
               paint. Clusters of sullen, militant SKINHEADS hang around 
               the periphery.

               An attractive, blissed-out WAIF approaches Andy with a 
               paintbrush and a jar of day-glo face paint and a brush. She 
               goes to paint Andy's face. He stops her.

                                     ANDY
                         That's alright. I'll be a cowboy.

               She smiles and pushes his hand down. He shrugs and lets her 
               paint two day-glow red stripes on his cheeks.

                                     ANDY
                         Alright. Fine...
                              (with mock enthusiasm)
                         Ooh. I can feel it tingling.

               Andy sniffs and makes a face - the paint has a weird smell.

                                     ANDY
                         Phew. What's in this stuff, liquid 
                         plumber?
                              (he pulls the book 
                              out of his pocket 
                              and shows her Claude's 
                              picture)
                         Do you know this guy? Claude?

                                     WAIF
                         Ah oui, le professeur. La bas.

               She points to a dark alcove off the main cavern. Andy nods 
               and starts off. We move in on a leather clad young man leaning 
               against the wall, watching Andy go. This is GASTON DUFAUX, a 
               self-styled Parisian thug, who seems to be cultivating a 
               sort of "Mickey Rourke" look. He takes a drag from his 
               cigarette and we see he's missing two fingers.

               Andy makes his way through the crowd. People are dancing 
               with wild abandon, and many carry torches. A SKINNY GUY IN A 
               DIAPER and a paper mache skull mask runs through the crowd, 
               ranting and spraying fluorescent silly string. He does a 
               weird dance around Andy and jabbers at him in French.

                                     ANDY
                         Uh, lemme get back to ya on that.

               Andy approaches the side room and peers in. A small group of 
               young people are listening intently to CLAUDE, whose back is 
               to us. He's expounding about something in a solemn tone.

                                     CLAUDE
                              (French, to group)
                         ...How ironic. A man who dedicated 
                         his life to opening the doors of the 
                         mind now lies trapped behind them. 
                         Locked behind a door without a key.

               We follow Andy as he steps around the crowd and sees Claude's 
               face. He looks older than in the photo - he's in his late 
               fifties, with white hair and intense eyes.

                                     ANDY
                         Excusez moi, I...

               Claude notices the book in Andy's hand. He speaks fluent 
               English.

                                     CLAUDE
                         I'm sorry my friend, I'm not signing 
                         books right now. There's been a 
                         tragedy.

                                     ANDY
                         I know. I'm Andy McDermott. Terrence's 
                         nephew.

               Claude is taken by surprise.

                                     CLAUDE
                         My God, I'm sorry. But how did you 
                         find your way down here? Wait, let's 
                         go talk...

               He excuses himself from his "flock" and leads Andy to a quiet 
               corner of the room. The kids disperse, several looking 
               sympathetically at Andy.

                                     CLAUDE
                         It's horrible. Terrence was one of 
                         the most brilliant men I've known.

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah, well, why did he hang out here? 
                         The cops said it's dangerous -

                                     CLAUDE
                         The cops. It's their backward laws 
                         that force all this underground in 
                         the first place, endangering people 
                         whose only crime is pushing the limits 
                         of perception, exploring new states 
                         of psychic awareness.

               They're suddenly doused with day-glo silly string as the 
               gibbering idiot in the diaper pops in to deliver a rant at 
               them.

                                     GUY IN DIAPER
                              (French)
                         The moon is bleeding! Prepare for 
                         the downpour!

               He ducks back out. Andy picks the silly string out of his 
               hair.

                                     ANDY
                         Psychic awareness. Right.

                                     CLAUDE
                         You think it's silly. But do you 
                         realize that young man is actually 
                         in a deep sleep?

                                     ANDY
                         What?

                                     CLAUDE
                         He's on a new drug called ZBH, or 
                         "Daydream". It allows the user to be 
                         fully alert and mobile while he's 
                         dreaming. He is literally conscious 
                         and unconscious at the same time.

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah well, that's like really groovy 
                         and everything, but who hacked my 
                         uncle's legs off?

               Claude frowns. He looks grave.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Andy...

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah?

                                     CLAUDE
                         Terrence and I came down here to do 
                         serious work. For centuries these 
                         tunnels have been home to subcultures 
                         mainstream society would not tolerate.

               He gestures to the main cavern, where people are far gone 
               into various states... some in a trance, some gyrating lustily 
               to the eerily hypnotic music. We intercut with these images 
               as Claude speaks.

                                     CLAUDE
                         These people carry on traditions 
                         dating back to pagan times - the 
                         ancient quest for expanded 
                         consciousness. At the same time 
                         they're pioneering a chemical 
                         revolution, powerful state-of-the-
                         art compounds... But you know what I 
                         mean....
                              (he gestures to Andy's 
                              face paint)
                         A year ago who would have dreamed of 
                         topically applied hallucinogens like 
                         TMD? Except Terry of course...

               Andy's eyes widen with comprehension. He touches his face.

                                     ANDY
                         What!? Hallucinogen? Oh shit...

               He rubs the face paint off with his shirt sleeve.

                                     CLAUDE
                         You didn't know? But then why did 
                         you... well, don't worry. It's 
                         relatively mild.

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah, well if I claw my face off, 
                         just pack it in ice, okay? Jesus... 
                         the cops were probably right. My 
                         uncle was messed up with a bunch of 
                         fry brains and they went berserk on 
                         him.

               Claude lowers his voice. He looks grim.

                                     CLAUDE
                         No... We stumbled on something else 
                         down here Andy. Something horrible, 
                         almost unbelievable. But very real. 
                         It's been going on for centuries, 
                         though most people wouldn't believe 
                         it, or wouldn't want to...

               Andy's somewhere between spooked and incredulous. He glances 
               at the book in his hand.

                                     ANDY
                         Wait a second, are you like the Steven 
                         King of France or something...

                                     SERAFINE (O.S.)
                         Andy!

               Andy turns and sees Serafine run up to him. She looks worried.

                                     ANDY
                         So you came after all. Just in time, 
                         it's getting interesting.

                                     SERAFINE
                         You must get out of here. It's not 
                         safe.

               She grabs him by the arm. He resists.

                                     ANDY
                         Not you too -

                                     CLAUDE
                              (checks his watch)
                         My God! Serafine's right. It's time 
                         to go. We'll talk soon.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Bon nuit Claude.
                              (to Andy)
                         Come on.

               Claude dashes off. Serafine drags Andy into the main cavern.

                                     ANDY
                         Hey, chill out a second!

               She leads him across the cavern towards the entrance. Andy 
               stops short and pulls away from her. It's not easy - she has 
               a strong grip.

                                     ANDY
                         Alright, hold on. I'm not gonna get 
                         dragged around like some kid in a 
                         shopping mall. I want you to answer 
                         some questions.

               Serafine sees something over Andy's shoulder.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Merde. I knew I shouldn't have come 
                         here.

               Andy turns to see Gaston approaching. He leers at Serafine.

                                     GASTON
                              (French)
                         Serafine, mon cher. I hear your boss 
                         looks great in cut-offs.

                                     SERAFINE
                              (French)
                         Get the fuck away from me, Gaston.

                                     GASTON
                              (French)
                         First you tell me where the ADM is, 
                         eh?

               He puts his hand on her shoulder. Andy notices the missing 
               fingers.

                                     SERAFINE
                              (French)
                         Fuck you.

               She shoves his hand away and pulls Andy past him. Gaston 
               grabs her and spins her around. This time Andy grabs Gaston's 
               hand and pulls it off her. He holds up Gaston's three fingered 
               hand and glares at him.

                                     ANDY
                         Well, this explains the two fingers 
                         they found in Liberace's asshole.

               Gaston jerks his hand away. He stabs his finger in Andy's 
               chest.

                                     GASTON
                         In Paris we have an expression for 
                         people like you: Enculé d'Americain.

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah? In New York we got an expression 
                         too. Goes like this...

               CRACK! Andy hauls off and belts Gaston in the jaw as hard as 
               he can. But Gaston doesn't even lose his footing. He sneers 
               with rage and hits Andy with a vicious combination. His 
               glasses fly off as he reels into the crowd, knocking a few 
               people into a group of nearby SKINHEADS. The skinheads erupt 
               into randomly directed violence - a full fledged BRAWL breaks 
               out. It's chaos.

               On the floor, Andy squirms away from the skinheads and 
               retrieves his glasses. He hears Serafine call his name. He 
               gets up amidst the mayhem and sees Serafine being carried 
               away by the crowd.

                                     ANDY
                         Serafine!

               Someone knocks into Andy and he falls to the ground. He gets 
               back on his feet - Serafine's nowhere in sight. He pushes 
               his way through the crowd, looking for her. He catches sight 
               of her white dress in a distant corner. It's there for a 
               second and then gone again - apparently into a tunnel. He 
               runs over to it.

               Andy peers into THE TUNNEL, which houses some old pipes. It 
               fades quickly into darkness. He grabs a kerosene torch from 
               the wall and runs into the tunnel. About a hundred yards in 
               he passes an ALCOVE.

               He leans in with his torch and peers around. The cave like 
               room is empty but something catches Andy's eye. Scratched 
               into the stone wall, amidst various graffiti, is A PENTAGRAM. 
               It looks to be centuries old.

               Andy's transfixed by it. The sound of his own breathing 
               suddenly becomes deafening and his vision begins to distort: 
               the textures of the stone wall begin to churn and crawl, and 
               the flames from his torch melt into different hues. The 
               pentagram glows and seems to grow out of the wall...

               The hallucinatory flash is over as fast as it began. Panting, 
               stunned, Andy shakes it off. He wipes his face, checking for 
               traces of paint. He tries to reassure himself.

                                     ANDY
                         Whoa. C'mon.

               A woman's SCREAM echoes through the tunnels. He runs towards 
               it.

                                     ANDY
                         Serafine!?

               Another scream - anguished, tortured. Andy runs faster. He 
               arrives at an intersection with another tunnel, turns the 
               corner and finds...

               A decrepit old WINO hogging a bottle from his warty HAG 
               companion, provoking her to scream like she just lost her 
               only son. They look up at Andy. The hag shuts up. They fix 
               Andy with an odd stare.

                                     ANDY
                         Sorry... I, uh, did you see a girl, 
                         la femme, um, avec, la dress blanc?

               They just stare at him. Spooked, he walks past them. They 
               follow him with their creepy stare as he continues into the 
               tunnel, which slopes downhill.

               He comes to an old stairway leading down into darkness. WATER 
               pours out of a hole in the ceiling. The steps are severely 
               eroded and slick with flowing water and moss. Andy sees 
               something. It's SERAFINE'S SHOE, laying on a landing a few 
               yards down the stairs. He leans in further, loses his footing 
               and slips.

                                     ANDY
                         Ahh! Son of a bitch!

               He shoots down the stairs on his back, past the shoe which 
               lies at the mouth of an intersecting tunnel. His glasses 
               come off. The torch goes out. He stops at the bottom of the 
               stairs on a gravel surface.

               He winces a bit as he sits up. It's too dark to make much 
               out. He feels around the gravel, finds his GLASSES - they're 
               shattered. He scowls. He stands up and walks ahead, feeling 
               his way along the slick wall, peering into the darkness.

                                     ANDY
                         SERAFINE!?

               The echo sounds different - like he's in a larger space. The 
               echo decays into a familiar low RUMBLE.

               A reflection of light appears in a puddle on the floor. The 
               light gets brighter until Andy sees the subway tracks at his 
               feet. The rumble gets suddenly louder as

               METRO TRAIN

               barrels around the corner, flooding the tunnel with light 
               and closing on Andy fast.

                                     ANDY
                         Oh shit!

               He turns and runs for THE STAIRWAY. He skids on the gravel 
               and overshoots it. He scrambles back and up into it just as 
               THE TRAIN whooshes past.

               Andy scurries a few feet up the slick steps, using a rusty 
               pipe for a handhold. As he looks back at the SPARKING, RUSHING 
               TRAIN WHEELS, his heart pounding in his head, he has another 
               HALLUCINATORY-FLASH: the sparks explode into streaking 
               patterns of color and light.

               It passes quickly. The train goes by and its rumble fades. 
               Andy squeezes his temples and takes a deep breath. Before he 
               finishes exhaling, an UNEARTHLY HOWL echoes through the 
               tunnels. The howl literally takes his breath away - he's 
               frozen there, eyes wide, not breathing for a long moment.

               Quietly, carefully, he makes his way back up the dark, wet 
               stairs. He comes to the landing, picks up Serafine's shoe, 
               and steps into the INTERSECTING TUNNEL.

               He squints into the darkness. Without his glasses, ANDY'S 
               POV is a bit blurry.

               He walks into the tunnel. Another HOWL. Andy swallows hard.

                                     ANDY
                         Jesus Christ...

               He hurries along. WATER DRIPS from the tunnel ceiling, down 
               the walls, onto the cobblestone floor, flowing into rivulets 
               around Andy's feet and joining a stream that flows ahead of 
               him, disappearing into the blackness ahead. He approaches 
               another intersection. He stumbles over something.

               He looks down and makes out a GIRL'S BARE LEG lying in a 
               puddle in the dark intersecting tunnel. He follows the leg 
               up with his eyes - it's messily severed above the knee. He 
               gasps.

               He looks further into the tunnel and sees A PAIR OF GLOWING 
               YELLOW EYES staring back at him out of the darkness. Andy 
               turns and runs.

               With a horrible ROAR, the eyes lunge after him and turn the 
               corner. As it gains on Andy, we see the dim outline of the 
               massive wolf-like beast.

               Andy dives for a SMALL CONDUIT, barely big enough for his 
               body, and wriggles into it. Behind him the yellow eyes appear 
               at the mouth of the conduit - the beast SNARLS but can't fit 
               in. Andy can see a dim light at the end of the conduit. He 
               crawls along.

               He emerges into ANOTHER TUNNEL. Some thirty yards away, light 
               and street noise come through a GRATE on the ceiling of an 
               antechamber beyond an iron gate.  Relieved, Andy starts off 
               towards it. A SNARL stops him in his tracks. THE BEAST comes 
               tearing around a corner fifty yards behind him.

               Andy breaks into a sprint towards the antechamber. He slips 
               on the wet floor and lands in a puddle, drenching himself. 
               The beast closes in.

               Andy gets up, runs into the antechamber and slams the iron 
               gate shut. There's a rusty DEADBOLT lock on the gate, but no 
               key. The beast is twenty five yards away and closing fast - 
               it's massive silhouette filling the diameter of the tunnel.

               Andy whips out his SWISS ARMY KNIFE, opens the screw driver 
               and tries it in the old-fashioned keyhole - it doesn't work. 
               The beast is twenty feet away. Andy tries the can opener - 
               no luck. Ten feet. Andy jams the corkscrew into the hole. 
               The beast leaps. The corkscrew turns. The DEADBOLT SLIDES.

               SLAM!! The beast rams the gate, shaking the anteroom. But it 
               holds. Flashes of CLAWS and TEETH thrash through the bars, 
               but it's still too dark to make the beast out clearly. Andy 
               runs across the anteroom, grabs the steel sewer grate on the 
               ceiling, and hoists himself up.

               Through the bars, he sees a BUSY BOULEVARD in the Pigalle 
               (the "Times Square" of Paris). There's a COP a few paces 
               away. Andy screams to him.

                                     ANDY
                         HELP! OFFICER!

               ON THE BOULEVARD - Over the roar of traffic and midnight 
               revelers, the cop can barely pinpoint Andy's screams. He 
               looks around, confused. He sees Andy and angrily shakes his 
               baton at him.

                                     COP
                              (French)
                         Hey! You shouldn't be down there!

                                     ANDY
                         FOR GOD'S SAKES, LET ME OUT!!

               THE BEAST slams the gate, wrenching one of the iron bars 
               loose - two more bars and it'll fit through. Andy jumps down, 
               picks up the loose bar. It's got a STAR SHAPED SPEAR TIP.

               He rushes at the gate and jams the spear through the gate, 
               aiming for the thrashing teeth and eyes in the darkness.

               The beast ducks and the spear sinks a couple of inches into 
               the BACK OF IT'S NECK and stops, apparently on bone. It 
               recoils and ROARS with pain, shaking the spear free.

               ON THE STREET - The cop raps the bars with his nightstick 
               and peers into the dark anteroom.

                                     COP
                              (in French)
                         You are not allowed down there!

               IN THE ANTEROOM - The beast rams the gate - it's rage 
               redoubled. Andy jumps up and grabs the grate.

                                     ANDY
                         GET ME THE FUCK OUT OF HERE!!

               ON THE STREET

                                     COP
                              (French)
                         "Fuck"? You think I don't know this 
                         word "fuck"? Is that how you talk to 
                         policemen in America?

               Enraged, the cop runs to his car, muttering to himself. He 
               opens the trunk and rummages around for something.

               IN THE ANTEROOM - The beast knocks another bar off the gate. 
               Andy watches in horror as it rams even harder, loosening the 
               NEXT BAR.

                                     ANDY
                              (to the cop)
                         FUCK! FUCK! FUCK! FUCK! FUCK!

               ON THE STREET - The cop looks over at Andy, incensed. He 
               takes a crowbar from the trunk, runs back cussing in French, 
               and struggles with the grate.

               IN THE ANTEROOM - The NEXT BAR on the gate gives. The beast 
               sticks its head through the gap and focuses it's searing 
               yellow eyes on Andy. It rears back, ready to pounce...

               THE GRATE - comes up. The cop grabs Andy and pulls...

               IN THE ANTEROOM - Andy's legs dangle like bait. The beast 
               lunges, teeth and claws bared.

               ON THE STREET - Andy screams as a bus roars by. The cop pulls 
               him up and out. Andy's right pants leg is torn open and he's 
               bleeding from a GOUGE in his ankle.

                                     COP
                              (French)
                         Okay, what the hell are you up to?

                                     ANDY
                         It bit me! My leg! Jesus, it's down 
                         there, shoot it! Shoot it for Christ's 
                         sakes!

               He points frantically at the open hole. The cop aims his 
               flashlight in the hole. It's empty. He looks Andy up and 
               down.

                                     COP
                              (French)
                         Your passport.

               Shaking, Andy takes his passport out of his pocket. The cop 
               takes it and copies some information. Andy raves at him - a 
               blur of English and broken French.

                                     ANDY
                         There's something down there! A bear 
                         or something! A god damn monster! 
                         Beau coup teeth! Huge, Grande, with 
                         yellow eyes, all this hair, it killed 
                         Serafine! My God...

                                     COP
                         You on drugs? Huh?

                                     ANDY
                              (he falters)
                         No... I...

               He looks disoriented, half-crazed. He definitely seems like 
               he's on drugs. The cop shines his flashlight in Andy's eyes - 
               his PUPILS are like saucers.

               ANDY'S POV

               The cop's flashlight sparks another HALLUCINATORY FLASH. The 
               cops face melts like liquid, sounds swirl together, the garish 
               neon signs of The Pigalle explode into streaking colors and 
               we BURN INTO WHITE.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. TERRENCE'S APARTMENT BUILDING

               The cop car pulls to a stop. The cop gets out, opens the 
               back door, and pulls Andy out. He pushes Andy towards the 
               building.

                                     COP
                              (French)
                         Stay off the street.

               The cop gets in the car and drives away. Andy staggers to 
               the gate in a daze and fumbles with the keys.

               INT. APARTMENT BUILDING

               Andy walks up to the apartment door. Disoriented and shaking, 
               he manages to open the door and walk in. He locks the door, 
               and switches on the lights. He looks out the small PEEPHOLE. 
               No sign of anyone or anything. He leans back against the 
               door and rubs his hands across his face.

                                     ANDY
                         Oh god. Je suis seriously messed 
                         up...

               There's a DRIPPING sound coming from the kitchen. Andy looks 
               across the living room into the dark kitchen. The DRIP 
               continues. He steps forward cautiously. Suddenly he feels 
               something and looks down sharply.

               UNCLE TERRENCE, bloody stumps and all, is clutching Andy's 
               legs and looking up at him desperately. He's trying to speak 
               but can't seem to make a sound. Blood from his wounds soaks 
               the WHITE BEAR RUG beneath them.

               Andy's terror struck, he tries to jump away but falls 
               backwards to the floor. Terrence crawls up and gets close to 
               Andy's face. He croaks out two words in a rasp -

                                     TERRENCE
                         Saint Severin...

               INT. TERRENCE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - SAME TIME

               The EKG monitor shows a FLATLINE. Alarms are BEEPING. 
               Terrence's body lies motionless under the oxygen tent. A 
               DOCTOR and a NURSE rush to the bed. The nurse rips the oxygen 
               tent away and the doctor SLAMS his fists down on Terrence's 
               chest. The EKG show s a tentative blip. The doctor SLAMS 
               again. An erratic heart beat starts back up on the EKG.

               INT. TERRENCE'S APARTMENT - SAME TIME

               Andy lies passed out on the floor. Terrence is gone, and the 
               rug is free from blood.

                                                             FADE TO BLACK:

               INT. LEDUC'S OFFICE - DAY

               Marcel sits next to the patrol cop, PEROTIN, who rescued 
               Andy. They're hysterical with laughter. Even LeDuc, sitting 
               behind his desk, is chuckling.

                                     LEDUC
                              (French)
                         What else did he say?

                                     PEROTIN
                              (French)
                         Yellow eyes... big teeth...
                              (he can barely choke 
                              out the words between 
                              laughs)
                         Covered with hair! Ha-ha-ha!

               Perotin playfully growls at Marcel. They laugh even harder.

                                     LEDUC
                              (French)
                         Okay Perotin. You can go.

               Perotin nods, still laughing. Marcel walks him to the door. 
               Before he steps out, Perotin bares his teeth, growls again, 
               and cracks up some more. Marcel, laughing, claps him on the 
               back and shuts the door - then he and LeDuc go instantly 
               stone faced. They look at each other gravely.

                                     LEDUC
                              (French)
                         Well?

                                     MARCEL
                              (grim)
                         Okay. So maybe you were right.

                                     LEDUC
                         Hmmph. At least now there's one person 
                         around here who doesn't think I'm 
                         crazy.

               LeDuc walks to a map of Paris on the wall covered with colored 
               push pins. He sticks a blue pin in it. He points to a green 
               pin on another part of the map.

                                     LEDUC
                              (French)
                         Twelve thirty-six a.m. here. Twelve 
                         forty a.m. here. There's two of them. 
                         At least.

                                     MARCEL
                         Merde.

               LeDuc looks at his calendar. Four days are circled in red 
               ink.

                                     LEDUC
                              (French)
                         Two more nights in this lunar cycle.

                                     MARCEL
                         Double merde.

               LeDuc opens a tall cabinet, revealing a bookshelf stuffed 
               with dusty tomes. He browses past dozens of titles about 
               black magic and demonology.

                                     LEDUC
                         You better follow that McDermott 
                         kid. He's going to wind up like his 
                         uncle if he's not careful.

                                     MARCEL
                         Right. Little twerp thinks he's 
                         Colombo.

               LeDuc selects an old book and hands it to Marcel.

                                     LEDUC
                         And do some research, will you?

               Marcel takes the book. He inspects the cover (it's in French) - 
               "Werewolves through the Ages: from St. Severin to the 
               present".

                                     MARCEL
                              (confused)
                         Saint Severin...

                                     LEDUC
                         You never heard the story of Saint 
                         Severin driving the werewolves from 
                         Paris?

                                     MARCEL
                         You think that's what McDermott was 
                         raving about in the ambulance?

                                     LEDUC
                         What, you think everyone's as ignorant 
                         as you?

               Marcel considers this.

                                     MARCEL
                         Pretty much.

               LeDuc grunts, exasperated.

                                     MARCEL
                         Inspector, you're not exactly typical. 
                         I mean c'mon...
                              (holds up book)
                         This thing isn't sitting on a lot of 
                         coffee tables.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               INT. TERRENCE'S APT. - LATE MORNING

               THE SAME OLD BOOK, sitting on the coffee table. The pages 
               are stuffed with notepaper place markers, many covered with 
               scribbling, and CHEMICAL NOTATION. In the background, on the 
               floor, is Andy - fast asleep and snoring where he collapsed 
               the night before.

               We hear a key in the lock. The door opens, smacking Andy in 
               the head once, twice.

                                     ANDY
                         Aoww! Hey! What the hell...?

               He grabs the door so it can't hit him again. Serafine pokes 
               her head around and sees him. She's surprised, relieved, 
               elated. Andy's reaction is more disoriented, stunned.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Andy! Holy shit!

                                     ANDY
                         Serafine...?

               She kneels beside him and helps him sit up.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Thank God! What a relief! I thought... 
                         After you disappeared... I couldn't 
                         find you... I thought all sorts of 
                         horrible things...

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah... Ditto. I saw, er, I thought 
                         I saw you get munched... like Uncle 
                         Terrence...

               He looks over at the clean bear rug. Andy rises to his feet 
               groggily. He looks down at the rip in his pant leg. He feels 
               the torn fabric, trying to remember.

                                     SERAFINE
                         What happened? Did you cut yourself?

                                     ANDY
                         Um... sort of... Maybe... It's all 
                         kind of blurry. We met at the club, 
                         then... Damn, that was some weird 
                         shit.

               He goes over to the window and parts the curtains. It's a 
               brilliant sunny day.

                                     SERAFINE
                         That was fucking stupid, going down 
                         there. You could have been killed. I 
                         tried to warn you, But you don't 
                         listen. Just like your uncle.

               Andy's only half listening. He opens the window, and inhales 
               deeply. Across the court yard, a MATRONLY WOMAN leans out a 
               window, hanging her laundry. In the courtyard, Lulu the 
               obnoxious poodle YAPS at another resident, and Madame Chretien 
               calls her back. Andy's head is clearing. His mood lifting.

                                     SERAFINE
                         You have to be a hero. All Americans 
                         think they are cowboys.

                                     ANDY
                              (leaning out window)
                         I was an Indian, actually. Man, that 
                         damn psycho paint...! If that's 
                         supposed to be mild, I don't want to 
                         know about medium.
                              (he looks at the woman 
                              and smiles, the sun 
                              on his face. To 
                              himself:)
                         The planet earth. It's good to be 
                         back.

                                     SERAFINE
                         So... you feel okay now?

               He turns around and smiles at her.

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah. Actually, I feel fan-fucking-
                         tastic.

               Serafine laughs. She hasn't heard this expression before. He 
               approaches her.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Fan-fucking-tastic?

                                     ANDY
                         Hey, what more could I want? I 
                         survived my first and last 
                         hallucinogenic hellride, and neither 
                         of us is dead. I'd say I feel almost 
                         as great as you look.

               He makes a grab for her, and she pushes him away.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Hey! Calm down.

               He jumps up on the sofa, unable to contain his energy.

                                     ANDY
                         Come on Serafine. Let's go out. Show 
                         me the real Paris, the part that 
                         isn't overpriced and overrun with 
                         German tourists.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Go to Jim Morrison's grave at Pere 
                         Lachaise. It's overrun with American 
                         tourists. I have to work.

                                     ANDY
                         I know! Let's go hock loogies off 
                         the Eiffel Tower!

               She digs in her pockets and hands him some coins.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Here. You go. "Hock some loogies" 
                         for me.

               She turns and heads off to the office. He runs in front of 
               her and blocks her path.

                                     ANDY
                         What about food? Even beautiful women 
                         have to eat. It's true. I read it. 
                         Please? A half an hour?
                              (pause. He sees she's 
                              tempted)
                         My treat?
                              (she's smiling. He 
                              resorts to begging)
                         Pleez! Don't make go out there alone 
                         again! I'm begging you!

                                     SERAFINE
                         Okay. But I'm back in half an hour.

               Andy claps his hands together in triumph and scrambles to 
               hold open the door for her.

                                     SERAFINE
                         What about your glasses?

                                     ANDY
                         It's okay. I can see fine.

               She gestures to his filthy clothes.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Don't you want to change?

                                     ANDY
                         Man! Our first date and already you're 
                         trying to get me to change! You French 
                         women work quick!

               She smiles and pushes him back in the apartment.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. PARIS BOULEVARD - DAY

               JERRY LEWIS

               on a TV screen, dubbed with a zany French voice, undergoes a 
               radical physical transformation in "The Nutty Professor". 
               Pull back to reveal Andy and Serafine watching this scene on 
               a dozen or so TV's in a store window display. Several PARISIAN 
               PEDESTRIANS watch Jerry with reverence.

                                     ANDY
                         Now this is Paris!

               On screen, the Nutty Professor's alter ego, "Buddy Love" 
               launches into his swinging version of "That Old Black Magic". 
               To this accompaniment, we cut the following -

               PARIS MONTAGE:

               - AT A BRASSERIE: Andy is about to escort Serafine into the 
               trendy eatery, but she stops him at the door and points to 
               the menu, or more specifically the prices. He makes a 
               horrified face, and they move on.

               - IN A BOULANGERIE: Serafine buys cheese, Andy buys meats - 
               the counterman shows Andy how big a slice off the pate loaf 
               he's about to cut. Andy nods "yes". The counterman cuts it 
               and offers the slice. Andy shakes his head "no" and points 
               to the much larger remainder of the loaf.

               - AT AN OUTDOOR MARKET: Detective Marcel, wearing a lame 
               "disguise" (new wave sunglasses ala "Diva"), watches Andy 
               and Serafine shop from a distance.

               - IN A PATISSERIE: Andy points to a large baguette, says 
               something suggestive and winks boastfully at Serafine. She 
               gives him a "yeah, right" look and points at a small 
               breadstick.

               - IN A WINE STORE: Andy looks at each bottle closely, then 
               "tests" it by shaking vigorously. Serafine's amused. The 
               owner's baffled.

               - ON THE RIGHT BANK: Arms full of groceries, Andy and Serafine 
               pass the row of outdoor pet stores near the river. Andy looks 
               longingly at the live ducks in their cages. Serafine pulls 
               him along. MUSIC fades out.

               EXT. ILE SAINT LOUIS - SUNSET

               Andy and Serafine sit on the river bank facing a magnificent 
               Paris vista. Serafine unpacks the food.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Shit! You bought enough pate for a 
                         fucking army!

                                     ANDY
                         So tell me, exactly which truck driver 
                         did you study English with?

               She laughs and pushes him playfully.

                                     ANDY
                         Like I should talk. Monsieur foot-in-
                         the-mouth. I'm really sorry about 
                         that whole Woody Allen thing...

                                     SERAFINE
                         So's Woody Allen.
                              (Andy laughs. She 
                              starts uncorking the 
                              wine.)
                         No, your uncle really helped me. I 
                         was sort of messed up for a while. 
                         Wasting my time just partying and... 
                         just stupid shit. He kind of woke me 
                         up, gave me a job, got me taking 
                         classes.
                              (she uncorks the wine 
                              and fills their 
                              plastic cups)
                         You know, he and Claude, their work 
                         is controversial, but they're serious 
                         about it. Totally dedicated.

                                     ANDY
                         That's what counts. If you're not 
                         passionate about it, don't waste 
                         your time. That's why I quit 
                         college... Plus I'm a lazy bastard.
                              (They raise their 
                              cups. Andy taps his 
                              forehead.)
                         Wait, I know this... A votre sante.

                                     SERAFINE
                         A la votre.

               They "clink" and drink. He notices her KEYCHAIN lying on the 
               ground. It's a miniature replica of Rodin's famous sculpture, 
               "The Kiss". He picks it up.

                                     ANDY
                         This looks familiar...

                                     SERAFINE
                         Ahh, Rodin. Mmm! He's the fuc-
                              (she catches herself 
                              and laughs)
                         I mean, he's the best. You must go 
                         to the Rodin sculpture garden, in 
                         the huitieme, it's so beautiful.

               She gestures across the river. Andy looks at the gorgeous 
               panorama.

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah, I gotta admit, you French are 
                         pretty good at beautiful.

               He looks at Serafine. She looks back at him. He holds up 
               "The Kiss".

                                     ANDY
                         I bet you're pretty good at this 
                         too.

               She smiles playfully.

                                     SERAFINE
                         What, sculpting?

               He shakes his head "no" and moves towards her. They kiss 
               tenderly. They separate and share a deep, passionate look. 
               They kiss again, hungrily, falling into a passionate embrace. 
               They're really going for it. Her NAILS dig into his back. He 
               pulls her body into his until they look like one form - just 
               like Rodin's sculpture.

               APPLAUSE and CHEERS break the moment. A TOURIST BOAT is 
               gliding by on the Seine, it's ELDERLY PASSENGERS applauding 
               the young couple. Serafine pulls away, blushing a little, 
               and turns to the boat. ANDY doesn't even notice the boat. 
               He's staring at Sera fine with a scary kind of intensity. 
               She starts to say something but he starts kissing her again, 
               cutting her off.

               Suddenly he's out of control, pawing at her... It takes an 
               effort for her to pull back from him.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Hey, calm down a second...

               She looks into his eyes and freezes with fear. HIS STARE is 
               terrifying, totally predatory, inhuman. Something's ignited 
               in him. She pushes him away and shakes him.

                                     SERAFINE
                         What's wrong with you!?

               Andy blinks and seems to come a couple of steps back to 
               normality.

                                     ANDY
                         What? Aren't I a good kisser? What's 
                         the matter?

               She fixes him with a heavy, suspicious stare. She glances 
               down at his ankle, where the bottom of HIS WOUND is visible. 
               She seems to understand something. She fumbles in her purse, 
               takes out a compact mirror, and checks her face.

                                     SERAFINE
                         God, look at my lipstick. Look, I'm 
                         going to run into the bathroom at 
                         that cafe. Stay here and watch the 
                         stuff, okay?

               She gets up and starts off. He looks after her.

                                     ANDY
                         Serafine...

                                     SERAFINE
                         I'll be right back. Stay put.

               She runs up the steps to street level. Andy watches her go. 
               He turns back to his glass of wine and chugs it. He puts the 
               bottle to his lips and takes a long belt. He picks up the 
               big block of pate and bites into it like a piece of cake. He 
               likes it. He takes another huge bite. He looks after Serafine. 
               He gets up.

               INT. CAFE

               Serafine puts her "telecarte" into the pay phone and dials. 
               She looks anxious, upset. We hear the phone ringing at the 
               other end. Behind her, Andy comes into the cafe. He walks up 
               to her, pissed off.

                                     ANDY
                         Fixing your makeup with a phone, 
                         huh? Who the fuck are you calling?

                                     SERAFINE
                         Professor Roussel. There's something 
                         wrong with you. I know it.

                                     ANDY
                         Roussel? You mean Claude? You're 
                         calling Dr. Demento so he can come 
                         paint my face again? Fuck that.

               Andy starts backing away.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Andy, stop! I think he can help you -
                              (Claude picks up)

                                     CLAUDE (V.O.)
                         Allo?

                                     ANDY
                         What, you think you're gonna catch 
                         fucking leprosy from me? Fuck that 
                         shit! If I'm not good enough for you 
                         I'll find someone else!

               He turns and storms out of the cafe. Serafine's flustered.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Andy!

                                     CLAUDE (V.O.)
                              (French)
                         Serafine? Is that you? What's going 
                         on?

                                     SERAFINE
                              (French)
                         Claude, it's Andy, he's acting really 
                         weird, I think something happened 
                         last night...

                                     CLAUDE (V.O.)
                         God, well don't let him go! Catch 
                         him!

               She drops the phone and runs out of the cafe. On the sidewalk, 
               she looks in all directions. Nothing. Andy's gone.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Fuck!

               INT. CLAUDE'S OFFICE - SAME TIME

               Claude's sitting at his desk, phone to his ear. The room is 
               stuffed with books.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Serafine? Allo?

               He hangs up. He strokes his chin and furrows his brow, sinking 
               deep into thought.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. STREETS OF PARIS - NIGHT

               Music cue: "Wolf Call" by Elvis Presley. Andy pays for a 
               crepe at one of the roadside stands, and eats it as he walks 
               along the narrow sidewalk, still brooding about Serafine. He 
               stops to gawk at the PRETTY GIRLS that pass by, and bumps 
               into a young FRENCH TOUGH with a ROTTWEILER.

                                     FRENCH TOUGH
                         Idiot!

                                     ANDY
                         Ah, bite me!

               He glares at the tough and his growling dog. The dog suddenly 
               shrinks back in fear and decides it's time to leave. He pulls 
               his owner along. Andy continues on his way. He ditches the 
               half finished crepe. That's not what he's hungry for.

               Andy comes upon a trendy little CAFE with several tables of 
               diners eating in the open air. Andy notices an attractive 
               young blond sitting alone, thumbing through a "Let's Go" 
               guide. This is AMY SINGLETON. Andy approaches confidently.

                                     ANDY
                         Ahem. Did you know that, according 
                         to the "Let's Go" code of conduct, 
                         whenever two Americans meet in Paris, 
                         the one with the sexiest smile has 
                         to buy dinner?

               Amy smiles. She is indeed sexy, with remarkable, sparkling 
               BLUE EYES.

                                     ANDY
                         Damn! You win!... Waiter! Garcon!

               He jumps into the seat across from her.

                                     AMY
                         Actually, I'm waiting for someone.

                                     ANDY
                         What a coincidence, I am someone!
                              (sniffs)
                         Mmm. Calvin Klein's Obsession. Now 
                         it's mine too.

               She laughs. The waiter arrives to take their order. Andy 
               hands him the empty half bottle of wine from Amy's table.

                                     ANDY
                         Hi. Another, bigger bottle for this 
                         ravishing blue eyed Goddess and 
                         myself. And, avez vous le Steak 
                         Tartar?

                                                                    CUT TO:

               INT. TERRENCE'S APARTMENT BUILDING HALLWAY - SAME TIME

               Serafine unlocks the door and enters the apartment. She's 
               stopped cold by what she sees. The place has been totally 
               ransacked - drawers opened, shelves cleared, furniture 
               overturned, the works. The window is open.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Merde! Salots!

               She walks across the room, kicking at the debris in her path. 
               She stands in the middle of the mess, absolutely furious.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Aaaaah!

               EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS

               Across the street from the apartment building, GASTON pauses 
               to light a cigarette. He hears Serafine's distant scream, 
               looks towards the building, and walks away.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. CAFE - NIGHT

               Three successive tables of upscale PARISIAN DINERS are gawking 
               at something. At one table, Inspector Marcel hides behind 
               his menu, and shakes his head in disdain.

               We follow their glances to Andy, greedily licking the last 
               bits of Steak Tartar off his plate. Amy giggles in amazement 
               as she pours the last from the bottle of wine. She's a bit 
               drunk - enough to be amused by Andy's antics.

                                     AMY
                         God. How can you eat like that?

                                     ANDY
                         It's all in the tongue. Another 
                         bottle?

               Amy laughs and nods "yes". JEAN-LUC, 25, a well dressed, 
               powerfully built Frenchman enters. He kisses Amy on both 
               cheeks, all the while watching Andy uneasily.

                                     AMY
                         Jean-Luc. You're kinda late sweetie.

                                     JEAN-LUC
                         I was busy. Is this a friend of yours?

                                     AMY
                         Well, yeah, kinda', but -

                                     ANDY
                         We're so much more than friends. 
                         We're soul mates, sex slaves, pen 
                         pals, the whole nine yards. Well, 
                         nine yards is a slight exaggeration, 
                         but believe me, for a white boy, I 
                         got nothing to be ashamed of.

               Amy laughs in mid gulp and wine comes through her nose. Andy 
               looks at Jean-Luc, who is - of course - pretty steamed.

                                     ANDY
                         Hey, I'm kidding... It's a joke! 
                         Here, maybe if I say it in metric.

               Jean-Luc grabs Andy by the collar and pulls him to his feet.

                                     JEAN-LUC
                         Think you're smart, huh?

               Amy tries to intervene.

                                     AMY
                         Jean-Luc, don't be a jerk.

               She tries to pull his hands off Andy, but Jean-Luc sends her 
               reeling back with a firm shove.

                                     ANDY
                         Hey, look man, she -

               Jean-Luc brings his hand back and slaps Andy in the mouth.

                                     JEAN-LUC
                         Shut up. Why are you Americans always 
                         so loud?

                                     ANDY
                         I don't know. Maybe it's so we can 
                         drown out the sound of your mother 
                         fucking the navy?

               Jean-Luc takes a swing at Andy. With amazing reflexes, he 
               dodges it deftly. Jean-Luc jabs - again Andy avoids it easily. 
               He smiles, impressed with himself. Jean-Luc is incensed.

               He goes for Andy's throat, but Andy catches him by the arm 
               and, with superhuman strength, FLIPS him head over heels, 
               through the air and - SMASH! - onto a nearby table.

               Andy casually leans past the semi-conscious Jean-Luc and 
               plucks a CHAMPAGNE BOTTLE out of its ice bucket. The WAITER 
               is about to object, but thinks better of it. Andy takes Amy 
               by the arm, she grabs the RED WINE BOTTLE, and they start 
               off away from the cafe.

                                     AMY
                         Wow. You know Kung Fu or something?

                                     ANDY
                              (amazed at himself)
                         Yeah. Apparently.

               In the background, Marcel hurries to pay his tab and follow 
               them. He slips on some of the broken glassware spilled by 
               Jean-Luc's fall, and almost goes for a tumble himself.

               FURTHER DOWN THE STREET

               Amy and Andy walk together. She's still giddy.

                                     AMY
                         Ha ha. You were probably right about 
                         his mom.

                                     ANDY
                         Hope I didn't hurt him too bad.

                                     AMY
                         Who gives a shit? I've had it up to 
                         here with arrogant Frenchmen.

                                     ANDY
                         Up to there? Really? I bet I could 
                         beat that.

                                     AMY
                         Ha ha! Yeah right, white boy! Ha Ha 
                         ha.
                              (she hiccups)
                         I think maybe I drank too much.

                                     ANDY
                         Ah. The mating call of the blonde. 
                         The night is young, the moon is 
                         bright, whataya feel like doing 
                         tonight?

                                     AMY
                         I don't know... Surprise me.

               He thinks a moment, then puts his arm around her and whispers 
               in her ear. She squeals with delight.

                                     AMY
                         Are you kidding?! I LOVE Jim 
                         Morrison!!

               Inspector Marcel, who's eavesdropping from around a nearby 
               corner, rolls his eyes to heaven. Oh brother. The Doors' 
               "Backdoor Man" kicks loud as we

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. PERE LACHAISE - NIGHT

               Marcel is hiding behind a grave, spying. His passion for 
               police work has been reborn, judging from his rapt, totally 
               absorbed stare. He's watching...

               ANDY AND AMY

               having extremely hot and primal sex on Jim Morrison's grave, 
               lit by dozens of flickering candles people have "left for 
               Jim". He pours red wine into their mouths. Sweat and wine 
               drip off their naked bodies. The sex heats up to an intense, 
               screaming climax. Amy squeals with ecstasy.

                                     AMY
                         My God! You're an animal!

               But Andy's still accelerating - transported to another plane. 
               Sweat pours from his brow. His face contorts with each groan, 
               but now it's hard to tell if it's from pleasure or pain. His 
               body jerks violently and his skin suddenly blushes bright 
               red. Amy winces.

                                     AMY
                         Ahh! Jesus! You're burning hot! What 
                         the hell -

                                     ANDY
                         AHHHHHHH!

               Marcel is a little disconcerted.

                                     MARCEL
                              (French, to himself)
                         Alright already, you passed the 
                         audition for God's sakes.

               Andy's skin literally glows red, turning his sweat to steam. 
               He leaps off Amy and disappears into the sprawling cemetery, 
               screaming in agony. Amy watches him go.

                                     AMY
                         Hey, where are you going!?

               Marcel starts off after Andy, taking the wide route around 
               Amy. Andy's scream echoes through the cemetery. Amy pulls 
               her dress on.

                                     AMY
                         Creep.

               ANDY

               red hot (literally), weaves through the tombs, screaming. He 
               comes to a small courtyard with an ORNATE FOUNTAIN. He dives 
               into the brackish water. Clouds of steam rise off the water 
               as he thrashes about under the marble goddess in the center 
               of the fountain.

               AMY

               searches through the graveyard. She's got Andy's clothes.

                                     AMY
                         I don't know what's wrong with you, 
                         man, but I got your pants, so we 
                         better talk.

               THE FOUNTAIN

               Andy's gurgling screams are changing, becoming less human. 
               We catch glimpses of body parts as they surface from the 
               churning froth - GROTESQUE, FLAILING LIMBS somewhere in mid-
               transformation between human and beast.

               MARCEL

               steps cautiously through the ancient, ornate tombs and 
               mausoleums, listening to the distant splashing and sporadic 
               inhuman screams. He draws his gun and loads a cartridge. 
               Suddenly a horrible grunt and loud SMASH pierce the air. 
               Marcel wheels around and smacks nose first into a gravestone.

                                     MARCEL
                         Merde!

               AMY

               in another part of the graveyard, stops in her tracks, 
               listening. Another SMASH followed by crumbling, and rushing 
               water.

                                     AMY
                              (to herself)
                         He's gone psycho ballistic. This is 
                         bad.

               Amy feels something and looks down. There's a stream of water 
               flowing around her feet. She follows it towards its source 
               and steps into

               THE COURTYARD

               The fountain has been smashed - the stone rim cracked into 
               bits and the center statue fallen to the ground. There's no 
               sign of Andy. Amy walks up to the fountain.

                                     AMY
                         Oh my God...

               She notices something on the ground. It's the STONE GODDESS, 
               smashed into several pieces. We hear a low growl. Amy looks 
               up, terrified. She scans the GRAVES around the perimeter of 
               the courtyard. She takes a few tentative steps backward.

               Suddenly a MASSIVE TOMBSTONE is wrenched off its base (most 
               of the ancient stone markers are eroded and crumbling - many 
               already fallen over). It falls like a tree, revealing the 
               familiar pair of piercing yellow eyes behind it, framed by 
               the dim outline of a massive beast. Amy emits an odd, 
               primitive whine.

                                     AMY
                         Unnnhh...

               She runs away from the beast, across the courtyard and 
               disappears into the graves.

               In the DENSE FOREST OF TALL TOMBSTONES, Amy zigs and zags 
               through narrow spaces, barely wide enough for her slender 
               body to fit through. The camera CRANES UP.

               HIGH ANGLE

               Thirty paces behind Amy, pairs of tombstones split apart 
               like jungle vegetation, crashing thunderously to the ground. 
               The unseen beast's path is slowed by the monuments, but still 
               follows Amy.

               Amy looks back as she runs. She sees the tops of tombstones 
               fall behind her. She comes to a railing at the top of a 
               fifteen foot wall separating a LOWER LEVEL of the cemetery. 
               She hangs over the edge and quietly drops.

               She runs down a path comes to an intersection where six paths 
               converge. She looks down each of them, but can't see the 
               outer walls of the cemetery - just an endless landscape of 
               graves. She sprints down a path and ducks behind A LARGE 
               CRYPT.

               Up on the higher level, the beast howls. She looks up and 
               sees its silhouette sniffing the air, the full moon looming 
               behind it. She looks up at the iron door on the crypt. Then 
               she reaches into her purse...

               THE BEAST'S POV

               Its HEAVY BREATH dominates the soundtrack. It scans the sprawl 
               of graves from its perch on the hill, sniffing. It locks 
               it's stare on the large crypt. It sniffs again. With a growl, 
               it leaps over the railing (we stay with its POV) and hits 
               the ground running. It runs up a twisting path, closing in 
               on THE CRYPT. It arrives at the back of the crypt and circles 
               it, sniffing. It stops in front of the door.

               THE BEAST'S EYES

               Narrow and glow with intense predatory focus.

               INSIDE THE CRYPT

               We're looking at the door. CRASH! It flies open, revealing 
               the snarling beast, backlit by the moon. It lunges in and 
               stops.

               THE BEAST'S POV

               Scans back and forth - the crypt is empty. The beast sniffs 
               again and growls with rage.

               AMY

               somewhere else in the graveyard, sprays a long blast of 
               perfume into another crypt, and sneaks into the endless maze 
               of tombs. We hear the enraged beast smash into another crypt 
               a hundred yards away.

               Amy comes to ANOTHER FOUNTAIN and slips into the water, 
               quietly rinsing herself.

               THE BEAST'S POV

               smashes into another crypt. Nothing's inside. It backs up 
               and runs to another crypt. SMASH! Nothing. The growls grow 
               more furious. It crashes down another door. Nothing.

               Amy, dripping wet, pads down a row of ancient family 
               mausoleums. She pauses as the beast lets loose a horrible 
               howl and topples a monument some distance away. She tries 
               the heavy iron door on a SMALL GOTHIC MAUSOLEUM. It opens. 
               She slips inside.

               IN THE MAUSOLEUM

               Amy crouches under the small portal and STAINED GLASS WINDOW, 
               which depicts the Virgin Mary. She struggles to quiet her 
               breathing, and listens...

               She hears only the trickling water from the nearby fountain. 
               Then... some crackling twigs... then a SNIFF... another SNIFF, 
               closer. Trembling, Amy quietly raises herself, peers out the 
               portal and sees

               MARCEL

               Standing a few paces away, SNIFFING and trying to stem the 
               flow from his bloody nose.

                                     MARCEL
                         Merde...

               Amy breaths a sigh of relief. Then -

               THE BEAST springs out of the darkness behind Marcel - a blur 
               of eyes, claws, and teeth - and tackles him to the ground.

               IN THE MAUSOLEUM

               Amy drops down to the floor, huddled in terror. A GUN SHOT 
               hits the STAINED GLASS above Amy's head, shattering the Holy 
               Virgin. Another GUN SHOT followed by a ROAR OF PAIN from the 
               beast. But the pained roar quickly becomes VICIOUS SNARLING 
               again. There are no more shots, just horrible snarls, screams, 
               and ripping flesh. BLOOD splatters through the portal and 
               drips down Amy's face. She hunkers down. Then, the sound of 
               steps going away, and at last... silence.

               Amy waits. We hear only the fountain and another, closer 
               DRIPPING. It's Amy's wet clothes, still dripping into A PUDDLE 
               on the floor, which is dripping UNDER THE IRON DOOR, into a 
               small STREAM flowing on the otherwise dry STONE WALKWAY, 
               away from the mausoleum.

               In the mausoleum, Amy listens a bit more. Satisfied the coast 
               is clear, she quietly turns to the iron door, grasps the 
               handle and slowly turns it. But

               before it clicks open -

               RRRIIP!! The iron door is wrenched out of Amy's hand and off 
               it's hinges, revealing

               THE BEAST, up close and in clear view for the first time - 
               it's truly awesome - a huge leering mouth full of razor sharp 
               teeth, a hulking body built like a wolf but as massive as a 
               bear, and vaguely humanoid paws with big hook claws. There's 
               a bloody FLESH WOUND in its right shoulder.

               It snarls savagely at Amy. She chokes out a little cry. The 
               beast lunges.

               OUTSIDE THE MAUSOLEUM - HIGH ANGLE

               The beast's powerful hind section sticks out of the mausoleum, 
               kicking a bit as it rips into its prey. The graveyard sprawls 
               endlessly under the big moon, which hangs low in the sky.

                                                             FADE TO BLACK:

               EXT. TERRENCE'S APT. BUILDING COURTYARD - MORNING

               We hear Lulu the poodle's bell jingling behind a bush. Madame 
               Chretein pokes her head out her door and whistles for Lulu. 
               The bell keeps jingling, but Lulu doesn't come. She calls 
               its name. It still won't come. She steps out into the 
               courtyard in her bathrobe and walks towards the bush, calling 
               for the dog, annoyed as its disobedience. She looks behind 
               the bush and sees - A CROW picking at the scant remains of 
               Lulu, ringing the collar bell with its beak. She SCREAMS.

               INT. TERRENCE'S APT. - SAME TIME

               Andy wakes up in a cold sweat, naked on his Uncle's couch. 
               The phone is ringing. He looks disoriented, confused. We 
               hear Madame Chretien screaming in the background.

                                     ANDY
                         Jesus...

               He sits up to get the phone and becomes dizzy - he grabs his 
               head. He reaches for the phone and winces - there's a crusted 
               over FLESH WOUND on his right shoulder. He picks up the phone.

                                     ANDY
                         Hello?

                                     SERAFINE (O.S.)
                              (anxious, concerned)
                         Are you okay?

                                     ANDY
                         No, I don't think so... I was having 
                         a nightmare. Wait a second...

                                     SERAFINE (O.S.)
                         Where did you go last night? What 
                         did you do?

                                     ANDY
                         I don't... I... I can't remember...

                                     SERAFINE (O.S.)
                         Listen, I'm coming over. Don't go 
                         anywhere. Stay right there.

               She hangs up. Andy is very confused. He sees the front door - 
               it's ajar and the door frame has been splintered where the 
               deadbolt sits. Stunned, he stands up, only to double over 
               with a wave of nausea. He covers his mouth and runs stooped 
               over to the bathroom.

               He leans over the toilet and vomits. After a few heaves his 
               body relaxes and he catches his breath. He opens his eyes 
               and looks down in the bowl - horror and disbelief sweep over 
               his face as he focuses on:

               A HUMAN EYEBALL

               staring back at him from the bloody water. The iris is a 
               familiar shade of sparkling blue...

                                     ANDY
                         Oh no... no...

               The doorbell rings. He leaps up, flushes the toilet and runs 
               out of the bathroom, still naked, to find himself in full 
               view of LeDuc and two UNIFORMED COPS standing in the open 
               door. One of the cops is examining the splintered door frame.

               LeDuc looks to be in an even worse mood than usual. His 
               English is rough, but firm.

                                     LEDUC
                         Get dressed.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               INT. POLICE MORGUE - MORNING

               We're close on a metal body drawer. A TECHNICIAN pulls it 
               open, revealing a severed human foot, nothing else.

               LeDuc, Andy, and the technician stand by the drawer in this 
               dreary room. LeDuc never takes his eyes off Andy's face.

                                     LEDUC
                         You recognize her?

                                     ANDY
                         What?!

               Leduc looks down, sees the foot, and barks at the technician.

                                     LEDUC
                              (French)
                         That's the wrong one!

               The technician checks his clipboard and tries another drawer. 
               It contains a rotting ARM. LeDuc curses under his breath. He 
               and the technician start opening drawers at random, peeking 
               in, then slamming them shut.

                                     ANDY
                              (nervous)
                         You, uh, you want to tell me what 
                         this is about?

               LeDuc ignores him, continuing to open drawers. The technician 
               appears to have found the right one at the far end.

                                     TECHINICAN
                         Inspector! C'est le voici.

               A little exasperated, LeDuc and Andy go over to see what the 
               technician has found. Once again, LeDuc gives him the nod. 
               He opens the drawer to reveal

               AMY'S MANGLED CORPSE

               It's badly lacerated. Parts of her throat and midriff are 
               missing, and she has only one eye. Andy gasps in horror.

                                     LEDUC
                         We know you were with her.

                                     ANDY
                         Oh shit... No...

                                     LEDUC
                         That's not all...
                              (he reaches for another 
                              drawer above Amy's)
                         Marcel - Officer Boulard was following 
                         you.

                                     ANDY
                         Oh no... no....

               He pulls open the drawer to reveal MARCEL'S MANGLED CORPSE. 
               There's a gaping hole in his midsection.

                                     LEDUC
                         He was a good man. Now his wife is a 
                         widow.

                                     ANDY
                              (overcome)
                         This is... it's like a sick joke, I -

               LeDuc grabs Andy by the collar and slams him against the 
               wall

                                     LEDUC
                         This is not a joke! Not a dream! 
                         These people are dead and -

               TAP TAP... Through the small window in the door he sees CHIEF 
               PICARD, his superior, trying to get his attention.

                                     LEDUC
                         Merde... Wait here. When I return 
                         you tell me about last night, huh?

                                     ANDY
                         But... I don't remember anything, I 
                         swear...

                                     LEDUC
                              (sternly)
                         I leave these open. Maybe something 
                         comes back to you.

               He leaves the room. The technician leaves too. Andy's alone, 
               staring at the corpses. Through the window, he can see LeDuc 
               arguing loudly with his superior... Andy tries to breath 
               deeply, calm down. He turns back to look at Amy's corpse. 
               Suddenly, her eyes - well, her eye - snaps open and looks 
               straight at him!

                                     AMY
                         Thanks for the lovely evening, 
                         shithead!

                                     ANDY
                         Aaaaa! Jesus! This isn't happening. 
                         I'm still hallucinating. Shit!

               Andy storms around in a fit of disbelief.

                                     AMY
                         You really know how to show a girl a 
                         good time, don't you?

               OUTSIDE THE ROOM

               LeDuc and the Chief have stopped their argument briefly to 
               watch Andy stomping around, gesturing wildly. They resume 
               their argument.

                                     CHIEF
                              (French)
                         Okay. So he's weird. Maybe on drugs. 
                         Still, that's not -

                                     LEDUC
                         I'm telling you. It's not drugs. 
                         It's something more. Someth -

                                     CHIEF
                         Don't give me your black magic 
                         bullshit! Seven mutilations in forty 
                         eight hours and all you find is a 
                         scrawny American boy? Do you have a 
                         motive?
                              (LeDuc hesitates)
                         Do you have a weapon? Or do you want 
                         me to believe he did it with his own 
                         two hands?

                                     LEDUC
                              (exasperated)
                         I told you. These murders are not 
                         normal.

               The Chief rolls his eyes, "here we go again" style. Meanwhile,

               INSIDE THE ROOM

               Andy is still pacing the room madly.

                                     AMY
                         Face it boyfriend. This is really 
                         happening.

                                     ANDY
                         No it isn't! You're dead!

               Marcel comes to life and peeks over the top of his drawer.

                                     MARCEL
                         I'm afraid she's not so lucky. She's 
                         undead. And so am I.

                                     ANDY
                         Aaaaa!!! Get the fuck away from me!

                                     MARCEL
                         What are you so damn angry about? 
                         Did somebody turn into a wild beast 
                         and rip your intestines out? Huh?

                                     AMY
                         I spent four years on StairMaster 
                         for this bod and you rip through it 
                         like a pork chop. Thanks.

               Andy blinks hard. Every time he opens his eyes, Marcel and 
               Amy are still there, hideous as ever, staring at him.

                                     ANDY
                         Okay... dead or undead... what do 
                         you want from me?

                                     AMY
                         A-duh... You're a werewolf. And we, 
                         as your victims, have to walk the 
                         earth until your curse is lifted.

                                     ANDY
                         Uh huh... And, supposing I believed 
                         that, what could I do about it?

                                     AMY/MARCEL
                              (together)
                         Kill yourself.

                                     AMY
                         It's the only way.

                                     MARCEL
                         It's not so hard. I used to think 
                         about it all the time. Maybe you 
                         should meet my wife.

               Andy buries his head in his hands.

               OUTSIDE THE ROOM

                                     CHIEF
                         Enough. Cut him loose.

                                     LEDUC
                         I can't! At midnight tonight, he 
                         will kill again. It's crazy!

                                     CHIEF
                         Are you crazy? We have nothing. Let 
                         him go, then watch him. If you're 
                         right, you can pick him up at 
                         midnight. Or maybe he'll lead you to 
                         the others. Just let him go.

               The chief leaves. LeDuc scowls. He looks in at Andy, still 
               gesticulating wildly and talking to thin air. LeDuc reenters 
               the room and looks at Andy bitterly.

                                     LEDUC
                         You're free to go.

               Andy looks from LeDuc to the drawers and back again.

                                     ANDY
                         Me?

               LeDuc gives him an angry stare.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. ILE DE LA CITE - DAY

               Andy walks past Notre Dame, flanked by Marcel and Amy.

                                     MARCEL
                         Hanging is nice. Never goes out of 
                         style. What about hare-kare - a taste 
                         of the Orient? But no! You're in 
                         Paris! Try the Guillotine! There's 
                         one in the Louvre!

                                     AMY
                         I'd use pills. They're painless.

                                     MARCEL
                         Oh give me a break! He could use 
                         pills back in America! Why not get a 
                         little culture?

               Andy stops in his tracks - overwhelmed, desperate.

                                     ANDY
                         Look, I didn't mean to hurt anybody... 
                         God, I didn't mean to... to...

                                     AMY
                         Rip my face off? Hey, we all make 
                         mistakes. Hell, I didn't mean to 
                         sleep with you on the first night, 
                         especially without a condom. But I 
                         did, and now I'm paying the price.

               Andy slumps over, beaten. Amy puts her arm around him. Marcel 
               pats him on the back. They start him walking along.

                                     MARCEL
                         Let's face it. It's a, how do you 
                         say... mother-fucker. But we're all 
                         in it together. That's why we're 
                         trying to help you.

                                     AMY
                         Exactly.

               HOOOOONNNNK!! Andy looks up to see a speeding bus about to 
               flatten him. Amy and Marcel have lead him into traffic. He 
               jumps back and the bus just grazes him. Of course, it passes 
               right through Amy and Marcel. They're still standing there 
               when it's gone.

                                     MARCEL
                         Merde! Just missed!

                                     AMY
                              (to Andy)
                         Uhh! Would you die already!

               Andy's adrenaline is pumping. There's still some fight in 
               him.

                                     ANDY
                         Fuck you! If I'm gonna kill myself 
                         I'll do it when I'm good and ready! 
                         You can go to hell!

                                     MARCEL
                         No we can't. That's the problem. God 
                         knows it would beat hanging around 
                         with you!

               Andy socks Marcel and breaks his jaw - off. It skitters off 
               into the street. He punches him in the gut - SKLURCH! His 
               fist gets stuck in the tangle of Marcel's abdominal organs.

               While Andy tries to pull his hand free, Amy rears back and 
               kicks him in the balls. He wrenches his hand loose and 
               staggers back, clutching his groin.

                                     ANDY
                         Hey, you can't kick me! You're an 
                         apparition!

                                     AMY
                         What, all of a sudden you got a degree 
                         in supernatural law?

               Marcel fits his jaw back into place.

                                     MARCEL
                         Call it the power of suggestion.

               He socks Andy in the mouth. Andy shakes it off, rips Marcel's 
               arm off, bashes him in the face with it, then turns around 
               and uses it to beat Amy over the head. Meanwhile...

               IN AN UNMARKED POLICE CAR PARKED A HALF BLOCK AWAY

               RENE and FRANCOIS, the two cops who accompanied LeDuc to 
               Andy's apartment, watch Andy whirl around the sidewalk, 
               swinging wildly at the air, reacting to invisible blows, and 
               cursing unseen enemies.

                                     RENE
                              (French)
                         You know, in his own way, he's 
                         probably happier than any of us.

               Francois nods philosophically. Meanwhile, back in Andy's 
               reality...

               Marcel has got him in a full Nelson and Amy is punching him 
               in the stomach. He bucks forward, wrenching both of Marcel's 
               arms off and slams them together onto Amy's head, knocking 
               her down. Andy waves Marcel's arms in triumph.

                                     ANDY
                         Ha-ha!

                                     AMY
                         Oh, big man. You can beat up a couple 
                         of cadavers. Well let me make 
                         something real clear, asshole. If 
                         you don't kill yourself, at midnight 
                         tonight you're gonna transform and 
                         murder innocent people!

                                     MARCEL
                         What are you going to be, McDermott? 
                         A coward and a murderer? Or a man, 
                         with guts enough to do the right 
                         thing?

               The truth of this question hits home with Andy. A heavy 
               expression falls over his face, one of grave sadness, but 
               also inner dignity. He breathes deeply and exhales.

                                     ANDY
                         Alright. Let me write a letter.

                                     MARCEL
                         Good man. Now can I have my arms 
                         back?

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. NEWS STAND - DAY

               Music cue: Thelonius Monk's "Round Midnight". The NEWS STAND 
               MAN hands Andy some stamps. Andy sticks them on a letter 
               addressed to Mr. and Mrs. William McDermott. He starts walking 
               away but a postcard in the display rack catches his eye - 
               it's Rodin's " The Kiss". He looks at it sadly.

               A MAILBOX

               Andy drops the letter in the box. He walks to a pay phone on 
               the sidewalk. Amy and Marcel lean on a nearby building, 
               watching Andy dial. Terrence's answering machine picks up.

                                     TERRENCE'S MACHINE (O.S.)
                              (French)
                         Hey. This is Terrence. Please leave 
                         a message at the beep...
                              (English)
                         In other words, this is Terrence 
                         McDermott. Please leave a message.
                              (it BEEPS)

                                     ANDY
                         Hey, Serafine, I hope you're checking 
                         these. It's Andy. So I guess you 
                         knew what was wrong with me yesterday. 
                         Unfortunately it took me until today 
                         to realize it, and because of that 
                         two people are dead. If you didn't 
                         know, well, shit, it's irrelevant 
                         now. I know what I have to do, but 
                         before I do it I just wanted to say... 
                         I don't know what would've happened 
                         with us, but I'm really glad I had 
                         the chance to know you even if it 
                         was only a couple of days and... I 
                         don't know... I probably wouldn't 
                         have the nerve to say this if I was 
                         gonna see you again, but I think if 
                         I had the chance to kiss you one 
                         more time I would've fallen totally 
                         in love with you.

               INT. TERRENCE'S APT. - SAME TIME

               The door opens, Serafine enters and runs to the machine.

                                     ANDY (ON MACHINE)
                         Oh well... Bye Serafine.

               Serafine snatches the phone off the receiver just as Andy 
               hangs up. She gets a dial tone. She's very upset.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Merde!

               ON THE SIDEWALK

               Amy and Marcel watch Andy hang up in the phone booth. The 
               emotion of the moment is getting to Amy.

                                     AMY
                         Geez, I feel bad for him. Maybe we 
                         should've told him abou -

                                     MARCEL
                         Are you crazy!? You know that's 
                         totally impractical. Besides, like 
                         the Bible says...
                              (he sticks his finger 
                              in her empty eye 
                              socket)
                         An eye for an eye...

               Amy nods. Andy exits the phone booth and approaches them. 
               "Round Midnight" fades out.

                                     ANDY
                         Let's do it.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. ESPLANADE - DAY

               Andy drains the last of a bottle of Jack Daniel's and wobbles 
               along, totally smashed and a bit wistful, with Amy and Marcel 
               in tow.

                                     ANDY
                         What the hell, lots of my heroes 
                         killed themselves. Hemingway, Van 
                         Gogh... um... Herve Villachaise...

                                     MARCEL
                         But this is class kid, all the way. 
                         What a way to go.

                                     AMY
                         You got style, babe. That's why I 
                         went for you in the first place.

               WIDE SHOT

               They're approaching the Eiffel tower.

                                     ANDY
                         When they ask how I died, just tell 
                         'em... Ei-ffel.

               THE COPS

               sit in their car, watching Andy buy his ticket and get into 
               the elevator.

                                     FRANCOIS
                              (French)
                         Should we follow him up?

                                     RENE
                         Well, he's gotta come down some time. 
                         Fuck it, let's grab a bite.

                                     FRANCOIS
                         Good thinking.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               INT. PATISSERIE - DAY

               It's a typical Parisian bakery, stuffed to the ceiling with 
               an unbelievable array of the finest, most delectable pastries. 
               Rene steps to the counter.

                                     RENE
                         Vous avez les doughnuts?

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. EIFFEL TOWER OBSERVATION DECK - DAY

               We're looking at the elevator doors. They open. Andy strides 
               out onto the deck, through the milling TOURISTS, flanked by 
               Marcel and Amy.

                                     ANDY
                         There's only one thing certain in 
                         life - each of us owes God a death.

               Proud, determined, Andy arrives at the six foot wire mesh 
               fence and quickly scales it. Amy and Marcel follow. Nearby 
               tourists are alarmed and a clamor of concern rises up. Those 
               with camcorders jockey for position.

                                     ANDY
                         All we can do is make sure it's a 
                         good one.

               Andy gets over the fence and stands on the small ledge. Amy 
               and Marcel join him. The tourists gasp. Andy glances down at 
               THE PRECIPITOUS DROP. He turns suddenly pale.

                                     ANDY
                         Shit. I feel sick.

                                     MARCEL
                         Don't worry. In a few seconds you 
                         won't feel a thing.

                                     ANDY
                         Puking on yourself in midair is not 
                         a good death.

                                     AMY
                         Look, the more you think about it, 
                         the harder it is.

                                     MARCEL
                         Just like sex with my wife.

                                     AMY
                         The key is don't look down.

                                     MARCEL
                         Also like sex with my wife.

                                     AMY
                              (to Marcel)
                         Would you shut up?

               Andy looks woozy. Tourists are trying to dissuade him in 
               Italian, Japanese, Icelandic, etc. Marcel tries a new tack.

                                     MARCEL
                         Tell you what, we'll jump together.

                                     AMY
                              (picking up Marcel's 
                              lead)
                         Sure. We wouldn't ask you to do 
                         anything we wouldn't do. Now give me 
                         your hand... that's it...

               Amy coaxes Andy's hand off the fence. The crowd gasps. Andy 
               grits his teeth and focuses again.

                                     AMY/MARCEL
                         One... two... three... JUMP!

               They jump, but Andy stops short - GASTON is leaning over the 
               fence and has Andy by his shirt.

                                     GASTON
                         You're not getting off so easy.

               AMY AND MARCEL

               Plummet through the air. They look back at Andy, annoyed.

                                     MARCEL
                         Merde! I can't believe this!

                                     AMY
                         You try to be a good sport, and look 
                         what happens.

               SPLAT!! Their bodies split into several pieces and squirt 
               out on the pavement into two radial patterns, each about ten 
               feet in diameter. Repair will take a while this time.

                                     MARCEL'S HEAD
                         Huh. Galileo was right.

                                     AMY'S HEAD
                         Who?

               GASTON

               has Andy by the arm and is trying to pull up to "safety". 
               The tourists cheer him on. Andy is resisting.

                                     GASTON
                         Where's the ADM? Where did your uncle 
                         put it?

                                     ANDY
                         Man, I don't know what the fuck you're 
                         talking about.

                                     GASTON
                         Bullshit! Your uncle told you!

                                     ANDY
                         My uncle's in a coma you moron!

                                     GASTON
                         Before the coma!

                                     ANDY
                         He didn't tell me anything. All he 
                         said was Saint Severin...

               Andy swallows the word "Severin", remembering something as 
               he speaks. Suddenly wheels are turning in his head.

                                     GASTON
                         Saint Severin? The church? So you 
                         know all about the ADM!
                              (Andy reacts to the 
                              word "church?")
                         Where is it! Tell me! Tell me or 
                         else!

                                     ANDY
                         Or else what? You'll kill me?

                                     GASTON
                         No. But I'll kill your fucking 
                         girlfriend!

                                     ANDY
                         You'll never get the chance.

               Andy pulls backward as hard as he can, jerking Gaston off 
               balance. He's trying to pull them both to their deaths, but 
               Gaston grabs a STEEL POST with his free hand.

               Andy hangs below the ledge, pulling Gaston's arm down with 
               all his new superhuman strength. But Gaston pulls back just 
               as hard. Andy sees The STEEL POST start to bend. He looks 
               into Gaston's FERAL STARE and understands...

                                     ANDY
                         It was you! You son-of-a-bitch! You 
                         got my uncle!

               The POST keeps bending - its welds won't hold long.

                                     GASTON
                         Don't be an idiot! I'm not the only 
                         one. If I die, Serafine dies!

                                     ANDY
                         Bullshit! You're bluffing!

                                     GASTON
                         What, you think Claude hangs out 
                         underground cause he likes to dance?

               This gives Andy pause.

                                     ANDY
                         Claude...?

                                     GASTON
                         And you call me a moron...

               Andy stops pulling. He looks uncertain - maybe Gaston is 
               right... But then - SNAP! The post, which has bent all the 
               way over into a "J" shape, snaps its weld. Gaston and Andy 
               plummet towards the ground nine hundred feet below. The 
               tourists gasp.

               Using the bent pole as a hook, Gaston snares a HORIZONTAL 
               ANTENNA which sticks out of the tower about fifty feet under 
               the observation deck. He stops short and dangles there, still 
               gripping Andy by the arm. The tourists CHEER. Meanwhile, 
               nine hundred feet below...

               RENE AND FRANCOIS

               lean on their car, munching doughnuts. The tower looms behind 
               them, and we can just make out the dangling figures at the 
               top. Rene reaches into the paper doughnut bag and comes up 
               short.

                                     RENE
                              (French)
                         Oh! You ate the last jelly!

               UP ON THE ANTENNA

               Gaston's grip is firm. They'll have to climb up the iron 
               cross beams to the observation deck.

                                     GASTON
                         The ADM. Let's go.

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah, okay. Just gimme a minute to 
                         freshen up.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               ON THE OBSERVATION DECK

               Andy and Gaston climb up onto the deck. The tourists applaud 
               and cheer for Gaston - the "hero".

                                     TOURISTS
                         Bravo! Magnifique! Wunderbah!

               Gaston can't resist posing as the cameras flash - he sucks 
               in his cheeks, purses his lips and does his best "Mickey 
               Rourke". Andy looks at him, incredulous.

                                     ANDY
                         I must be in Paris. Even the 
                         werewolves are poseurs.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               INT. TERRENCE'S APT. BUILDING

               Gaston and Andy endure the elevator ride together.

                                     ANDY
                         So, if you and the nutty professor 
                         are both werewolves, what do you 
                         want with drugs? You like seeing 
                         lots of pretty colors when you're 
                         tearing people's throats out?

                                     GASTON
                         If you know about the church, why 
                         ask such stupid questions?

               They step out of the elevator and up to the apartment door. 
               Andy takes his key ring out and tries the lock. The key won't 
               turn. Andy jiggles it.

                                     ANDY
                         Damn...

               He tries another key. It doesn't work. He jiggles it, rattling 
               the door on its hinges.

                                     GASTON
                         What's the problem?

                                     ANDY
                         Hey, I'm new here, what do you want?

               Andy tries a third key. No good. More jiggling.

                                     GASTON
                         Fucking cretin...

               The fourth key works. Andy pushes the door open. Gaston shoves 
               him in roughly and steps in after him.

               INT. TERRENCE'S APARTMENT

               Gaston shuts the door behind him and walks over to Andy, who 
               scans the room nervously, unsure of his next move.

                                     GASTON
                         Where is it? Hurry up!

               Andy's eyes come to rest on the end table drawer, where 
               Serafine had put the gun before... He advances toward it.

                                     ANDY
                              (patronizing)
                         Okay, okay. I got your magic medicine 
                         right here, dogboy. Just -

               Gaston grabs Andy's hand before he opens the drawer.

                                     GASTON
                         Do you think I'm an idiot?

                                     ANDY
                              (beat... incredulous)
                         Sure. Don't you?

               He shoves Andy away and opens the drawer... no gun. They 
               hear a pistol COCK behind them.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Looking for this?

               Gaston turns and sees Serafine aiming the gun at him. With 
               incredible speed he leaps for the window as Serafine fires. 
               BANG!! The bullet catches him in the arm as he dives through 
               the glass. BANG!! She fires again and misses.

               Gaston lands in the courtyard, three stories below, and runs 
               off with a slight limp. BANG! BANG! Serafine fires blindly 
               into the courtyard after him, overwrought with anger. Andy 
               puts a hand to her arm, and she lowers the gun. They embrace 
               tightly, desperately. Serafine can't keep from crying. Andy 
               comforts her.

                                     ANDY
                         Hey, hey... shhh. It's okay now... 
                         La Femme Nikita strikes again.

               He wipes away her tears and she smiles at his joke.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Andy, I thought... I heard your 
                         message and... thank God you're 
                         alright.

               She embraces him again, but Andy gently frees himself.

                                     ANDY
                         I'm not alright. We both know that. 
                         The only reason I'm here now is to 
                         warn you. You're still in danger. 
                         Gaston told me that Claude has got 
                         the curse too. He's a werewolf.

                                     SERAFINE
                         I know. He told me.

                                     ANDY
                         What?! He told you? When?

               Andy hears a familiar voice behind him.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Two weeks ago.

               Andy spins around to see Claude standing by the hallway to 
               Terrence's office. Andy reaches for the gun and points it at 
               him.

                                     ANDY
                         You two faced bastard. I knew you 
                         were full of shit.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Andy! No!

               She puts herself between Claude and the gun barrel. Andy 
               pushes her out of the way.

                                     ANDY
                         Serafine! Move! Don't you see, he's 
                         just after the drug, that ADM stuff. 
                         He's using you to get to it, just 
                         like he used Uncle Terrence.

               Claude approaches Andy, speaking calmly.

                                     CLAUDE
                         You're exactly right, Andy. I enlisted 
                         both Serafine and your uncle to obtain 
                         ADM. And now I'm counting on your 
                         assistance too.

                                     ANDY
                         Why the fuck would I do that?

                                     SERAFINE
                         Because, Andy. It's a cure.

                                     ANDY
                         A cure?

                                     CLAUDE
                         A cure. With ADM we can wipe out 
                         lycanthropy, the curse of the 
                         werewolf, forever.

               Andy is shocked, stunned, skeptical. He bluffs with the only 
               card he's got.

                                     ANDY
                         Is that so? Maybe we should go to 
                         Saint Severin church and make sure, 
                         huh?

               Claude's face changes. He's surprised.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Ah, you've done your homework... 
                         Excellent. Get your coat. Leave the 
                         gun with Serafine. She can keep 
                         searching. We don't have much time.

               Andy and Serafine share a heavy look. He hands her the gun.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Andy... I should never have let you 
                         go underground. I'm sorry...

                                     ANDY
                              (shaking his head)
                         I had to be a damn Hemingway hero. 
                         Well I'll tell ya, the old man and 
                         the sea didn't go through half this 
                         shit.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. SAINT SEVERIN CHURCH - EVENING

               Sheets of rain crash down over this ancient gothic church. 
               Sharing an umbrella, Andy and Claude walk inside.

               INT. UNMARKED POLICE CAR

               Parked across the street, Rene and Francois watch them enter 
               the church. Rene talks into a cellular phone.

                                     RENE
                              (French)
                         He's going into Saint Severin church 
                         with Professor Claude Roussel.

               INT. LEDUC'S OFFICE - SAME TIME

                                     LEDUC
                              (on phone)
                         Really... Okay, keep checking in.

               LeDuc hangs up and thinks a moment. He turns the page of the 
               old book on his desk, revealing an old woodcut illustration 
               of a policeman being attacked by a werewolf. He frowns.

               INT. SAINT SEVERIN CHURCH - EVENING

               An evening mass is in progress. The boy's choir fills the 
               church with a solemn hymn. Andy follows Claude to a narrow 
               staircase. An OLD WOMAN gives them the evil eye and crosses 
               herself as they pass. Claude and Andy go up the stairs and 
               arrive at a balcony under a magnificent wall of ancient 
               STAINED GLASS. One of the panels catches Andy's eye.

                                     ANDY
                         Whoa...

               THE PANEL shows a weird medieval ritual - a man draining 
               blood from another man's neck into a goblet. ANOTHER PANEL 
               features a pentagram. ANOTHER PANEL shows a huge werewolf 
               eating a monk under a frowning sun. All the transcriptions 
               are in Latin. Claude signals Andy to follow him.

                                     CLAUDE
                         The panels that concern us are over 
                         here.
                              (he directs Andy to a 
                              group of panels)
                         I'll translate the Latin.

               A PANEL shows a different werewolf, tied down, being stabbed 
               in the heart by a knight under a frowning moon.

                                     CLAUDE
                         "Then Simon did slay the demon spirit, 
                         the same as had made him unclean,"

               THE NEXT PANEL - the knight now holds the beast's heart aloft, 
               impaled on his dagger. Where the beast was, a man lies 
               bleeding in the background.

                                     CLAUDE
                         "and Simon did cut out the heart of 
                         the beast which once dead, regained 
                         the shape of a man"

               THE NEXT PANEL shows the beast's heart on a platter. The 
               Hero is sitting at a table, cutting into the heart with a 
               knife, as if he's about to eat it.

                                     CLAUDE
                         "Simon ate of the heart of the beast 
                         and his soul was cleansed."
                              (he turns to Andy)
                         These pictures are not just myth, 
                         Andy. The scholars of the day used 
                         them to record facts and enlighten 
                         the public. This is the medieval 
                         version of a newspaper.

                                     ANDY
                              (skeptical)
                         Yeah, well what if it's the Weekly 
                         World News...

                                     AMY
                         No. It's all true, Andy...

               Startled, Andy turns to see Amy and Marcel, a little worse 
               for wear, standing behind them.

                                     AMY
                         I mean, if by some miracle you can 
                         find the werewolf that bit you, and 
                         then manage to eat it's heart, the 
                         curse is lifted. I was gonna tell 
                         you but Marcel wouldn't let me.

                                     MARCEL
                         Oh sure, it was all mean old Marcel's 
                         idea. Give me a break! We didn't 
                         tell you because it's a wild goose 
                         chase! Not to mention disgusting. 
                         Look...

               Marcel reaches into his own chest cavity, rips out his own 
               slimy purple heart, and thrusts it in Andy's face.

                                     MARCEL
                         A little Grey Poupon and then Bon 
                         appetite, eh?

               Andy grimaces and turns back to Claude.

                                     CLAUDE
                              (to Amy)
                         I don't believe we've been introduced.

                                     ANDY
                         What?... Oh, right, you can see these 
                         guys too. Jesus...
                              (he rolls his eyes)

                                     AMY
                              (smiles and extends 
                              her hand)
                         Amy. Nice to meet you.

               Claude shakes her hand - SQUISH. Some sort of body fluid 
               oozes out of Amy's hand. Claude frowns and discreetly wipes 
               his hand with a handkerchief. Marcel smiles and extends his 
               hand.

                                     MARCEL
                         Marcel.
                              (Claude smiles 
                              politely, declining 
                              Marcel's rotting 
                              hand)
                         My wife has all your books.

               Claude nods "thank you". Andy's had enough.

                                     ANDY
                         Great. Later on we'll have to get 
                         together for cocktails. Right now I 
                         kinda have to hurry before I grow a 
                         lot of hair and eat people.
                              (to Claude)
                         Say this heart thing works. What's 
                         it got to do with ADM?

                                     CLAUDE
                         It's chemistry, Andy. Nothing more. 
                         Mutated antigens concentrated in the 
                         heart of the infector unlock a vaccine-
                         like chain reaction in the infectee. 
                         There were not many bio-chemists 
                         working in the twelfth century, but 
                         with today's technology it's possible 
                         to synthesize any chemical imaginable. 
                         When I discovered this ancient cure 
                         I knew who to go to.

                                     ANDY
                         Uncle Terrence.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Yes. I was able to decode the old 
                         texts and give Terrence the 
                         specifications. It took a lot of 
                         trial and error, but finally he got 
                         it: Adenine Di-Methyloxide. ADM. I 
                         call it ADAM. But just before he was 
                         attacked, he hid it...

                                     ANDY
                         Because Gaston was after it.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Yes, that sociopath. He's given 
                         himself over to the evil of 
                         lycanthropy. To him, ADAM is just a 
                         threat to the terror he holds over 
                         others. To us, it's salvation.

                                     MARCEL
                         Yeah, well I don't know much about 
                         chemistry, but even if this stuff 
                         works, you better find it by midnight. 
                         Otherwise it's -

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah, I know. Back to the Eiffel 
                         Tower.
                              (to Claude)
                         And what about you?

                                     CLAUDE
                         Believe me, I won't go through another 
                         night of that hell. I have my 
                         contingency plan right here.

               He removes a WHITE PILL from his coat pocket and holds it 
               up.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Sodium cyanide.

               The CHURCH BELLS ring. The group listens tensely as the solemn 
               bells sound eight times.

                                     ANDY
                         Eight o'clock. Shit. You'd think my 
                         uncle would have left a clue, a note, 
                         something...

                                     CLAUDE
                         That's what Serafine is searching 
                         for. Without much luck, I'm afraid. 
                         If only we could speak with him. But 
                         alas, he's off in another realm, 
                         close to death.

               The wheels in Andy's head are turning. He looks over at Amy 
               and Marcel. He smiles. He's got an idea.

                                     MARCEL
                         Andy, please. Don't smile like that. 
                         You're scaring me.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               INT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT

               Andy and Serafine walk down the corridor of the Terminal 
               Ward. Andy looks determined. Serafine looks upset.

                                     SERAFINE
                         What makes you so sure this will 
                         work?

                                     ANDY
                         I told you. He already tried to 
                         contact me once. If you saw his 
                         face... He was desperate to tell me 
                         something. I owe him this.

                                     SERAFINE
                         I don't know...

                                     ANDY
                         Listen, either he wastes away as a 
                         pathetic vegetable or he can give 
                         what's left of his life to save 
                         hundreds of potential victims. He's 
                         a McDermott. I know what his choice 
                         would be.

                                     SERAFINE
                         I suppose you're right. But I still 
                         don't like it.

               They stop at the door to Terrence's room.

                                     ANDY
                         Fine. You don't have to watch. Stay 
                         out here and stand guard.

               She nods. Andy goes into

               TERRENCE'S HOSPITAL ROOM

               The lights are off. Andy approaches Terrence's oxygen tent. 
               In the dim light, he can barely make out Terrence through 
               the plastic, lying motionless, barely making an impression 
               under the sheets. He looks at the body wistfully and surveys 
               the array of machinery that's keeping him "alive". Most of 
               the machines are plugged into a TRANSFORMER BOX on the floor.

                                     ANDY
                         Hey. We meet again... Look, I know 
                         you understand what I'm about to do 
                         here. I think. But I hope you forgive 
                         me anyway.

               Andy takes a deep breath. He leans down to the transformer 
               and opens the safety cover, and flips the power switch. All 
               the machines power down.

               Suddenly the old man in the bed sits up, gasping, and clawing 
               at the walls of the oxygen tent. Oh my God! It's NOT 
               Terrence!! Andy nearly soils himself, diving down to fumble 
               with the transformer, suddenly all thumbs. He switches the 
               power on again.

               THE NURSE STATION

               The fat, sour looking duty nurse sees the alarm from the 
               failed life support system. She's about to call for help 
               when the indicator stops flashing. She watches it intently 
               for a few seconds, nothing. She decides to dismiss it.

               TERRENCE'S ROOM

               The old man is lying back down, asleep. He seems to be okay. 
               His support machinery is functioning normally again.

               With a sigh of relief, Andy turns and pulls back the curtain 
               behind him. There's Terrence, sans oxygen tent, hooked up to 
               another extensive support system.

                                     ANDY
                         So. You moved...

               He pulls the curtain closed behind him, and moves in close 
               to his uncle. Terrence's expression looks unmistakably morose.

                                     ANDY
                         You don't look happy... Um, I don't 
                         usually go in for this stuff, but...
                              (He crosses himself, 
                              and says a silent 
                              prayer)
                         Amen.

               Andy leans down, opens the transformer box, and flips the 
               power switch. The machines power down - all except the EKG 
               monitor, which shows a flat line and emits the familiar steady 
               tone. Andy switches off the monitor. Silence.

               Terrence's body is completely still, peaceful. He leans down 
               over its face and speaks in a soft voice.

                                     ANDY
                         Uncle Terrence? Can you hear me?

               Terrence's body remains motionless.

               AT THE NURSE'S STATION

               This time the nurse doesn't wait to respond. Seeing the 
               indicators from Terrence's room, she presses the intercom.

                                     NURSE
                         Chambre 411. Code bleu! Code bleu!

               IN TERRENCE'S ROOM

               Silence. Andy's worried. He takes his uncle by the shoulders.

                                     ANDY
                         Come on... Skip the undead orientation 
                         and get down here.

               Nothing. He looks at the door nervously.

               OUTSIDE THE DOOR

               Serafine sees a squad of doctors and nurses pushing trolleys 
               of emergency equipment her way from the far end of the hall. 
               She leans her head in the door to warn Andy.

               INT. HOSPITAL ROOM

               Andy is beside himself with stress. He shakes Terrence's bed 
               a little to rouse him. Nothing. He tries a little harder 
               shake... The door opens. It's Serafine, also in a panic.

                                     SERAFINE
                         They're coming!

                                     ANDY
                         Shit. What have I done?
                              (to Serafine)
                         Stall them! I'll meet you out back.

               She shuts the door, just in time. The emergency team are 
               right there.

                                     SERAFINE
                              (feigning hysterics)
                         Stay away from him! You butchers! 
                         Haven't you done enough already!

               They struggle to get past her.

               INT. HOSPITAL ROOM

               Andy can hear Serafine arguing outside the door. He looks 
               out the window to the three story drop into the alley below.

               OUTSIDE THE DOOR

               Serafine is finally shoved aside. They push the door open.

               INSIDE

               Andy rushes to the door and pushes it shut. He cranks the 
               DOORKNOB all the over and bends it down, jamming it in the 
               locked position. He steps away. The door holds, but for how 
               long? He looks at the old man in the oxygen tent. Hmm. He 
               pushes the old man's bed up against the door.

               Andy forces the window open and steps out onto the ledge. He 
               looks back at his uncle, and the old guy. He shrugs 
               apologetically, then takes a deep breath, closes his eyes, 
               and jumps.

               OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL ROOM DOOR

               The fat nurse is getting impatient with the doctors, who are 
               attempting to pick the lock "surgically". She pushes them 
               aside and heaves her considerable heft against into the door. 
               It opens a crack. She backs up and slams it again...

               INSIDE THE ROOM

               The nurse's jolts shake the old guy's bed, sliding it forward. 
               He dozes happily like a baby rocking in the cradle.

               EXT. THE BACK ALLEY BEHIND THE HOSPITAL

               Andy runs behind a nearby dumpster to avoid being seen from 
               the window above. He kicks the wall in frustration.

                                     ANDY
                         Damn it!!

               A voice calls out from behind Andy.

                                     TERRENCE'S VOICE
                         Whoa! What an outrageous nightmare!

               Andy spins around and sees Terrence, the undead version, 
               perched atop some trash bags, scratching himself.

                                     ANDY
                         Uncle Terrence?

                                     TERRENCE
                         Andy? Andy is that you?

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah. Look, uncle Terrence -

               Terrence mutters distractedly, excitedly, and quickly...

                                     TERRENCE
                         Andy, I have to tell you about the 
                         dream I had - or that I'm still having - 
                         it feels like a systemic, physio-
                         tropic reaction to some drug, maybe 
                         a triptamine or phenethylamine 
                         derivative. But it is hyper-real. 
                         I'd swear my legs had been cut off 
                         or... wait a second... I'm getting a 
                         strange meta-physical buzz. Shit. 
                         I'm, uh, dead, aren't I?

                                     ANDY
                         Sort of...

               BACK IN THE HOSPITAL ROOM

               The doctors have clustered around Terrence's corpse. The 
               nurse is lubricating the electro-shock paddles for the doctor. 
               Serafine slips out the door into the hallway.

               SOMEONE'S POV, spying from behind a supply cart in the hallway 
               (we see a hand on the cart), watches Serafine walk away, 
               unnoticed by the doctors.

               BACK IN THE ALLEY

                                     TERRENCE
                         Undead. Right. Sort of an ectocosmic 
                         manifestation. What a pisser. Tell 
                         you one thing though, Timothy Leary 
                         will be jealous as hell.

                                     ANDY
                         Great, but listen, I need to know 
                         where you hid the ADM?

                                     TERRENCE
                         The ADM! Be careful, Andy. It's very 
                         powerful. How do you know about it?

                                     ANDY
                         I went to St. Severin church.
                              (Terrence reacts "I 
                              see...")
                         Now look -

               IN TERRENCE'S ROOM

               ZAP! The doctor jolts Terrence's chest with the paddles.

               IN THE ALLEY

               Terrence's zombie jerks with sudden pain.

                                     TERRENCE
                         Oh shit! No! Andy, don't let them 
                         take me back there!

                                     ANDY
                         The ADM! Quickly! Where is it?!

               TERRENCE'S ROOM

               ZZT! They zap him again.

               IN THE BACK ALLEY

                                     ANDY
                         Where is it! Please!

                                     TERRENCE
                         AHHH!! The wine cellar!! In a bottle 
                         of Chateau Margaux. A metal 
                         cylinder... Don't... Don't - AAAAH!

               Another zap. The undead Terrence twists his face in pain. In 
               the background, Serafine appears at the mouth of the alley. 
               Terrence croaks out a few last words.

                                     TERRENCE
                         Lies! All lies! Ahhhh!!!

               Andy turns towards Serafine, then back to his uncle, but 
               Terrence is gone.

               INT. HOSPITAL ROOM

               Terrence's face is contorted with pain. The EKG monitor shows 
               a weak but regular heartbeat. The doctor pulls off his mask 
               and wipes his brow. The other technicians congratulate him.

               IN THE ALLEY

               Serafine approaches. Andy runs up to join her.

                                     ANDY
                         I saw him. Just before those bastards 
                         zapped him back. The ADM is in the 
                         wine cellar, in a bottle of Chateau 
                         Margaux.

                                     SERAFINE
                         I didn't know he had a wine cellar.

                                     ANDY
                         Guess that's why he hid it there. 
                         Let's go.

               They run out of the alley and see GASTON jump on his hopped-
               up Kawasaki enduro.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Oh shit! He must have heard us.

               Gaston sees them, gives them the finger and tears off down 
               the street.

                                     ANDY
                         Dammit! C'mon!

               They run to Serafine's Vespa - the tires are slashed. Enraged, 
               she kicks it over.

                                     SERAFINE
                         That bastard! Fuck!

               Andy looks around desperately. A GUY pulls his motorcycle 
               out of its parking spot and starts up the street towards 
               Andy. Andy jumps out in front of the accelerating bike and 
               grabs the handlebars, stopping it short, sending the rider 
               tumbling forward, over Andy. He lands on his butt in the 
               street and starts yelling at Andy, who climbs on the bike.

                                     ANDY
                         Sorry... I'll bring it back.

               Serafine hops on the back and they burn rubber down the street 
               after Gaston. Music cue: CCR's "Bad Moon on the Rise". They 
               screech around the corner onto

               SAINT GERMAIN BOULEVARD

               It's red lights as far as the eye can see. Andy grits his 
               teeth and accelerates towards the cluster of traffic stopped 
               at the first light.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Oh merde!

               She shuts her eyes as Andy zooms between the rows of stopped 
               cars and roars through the red light. SCREECH!! Crossing 
               cars slam on their brakes and swerve to avoid the speeding 
               bike. Andy bears down on the next red light.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Are you crazy!?

                                     ANDY
                         Before Hemingway, there was Starsky 
                         and Hutch.

               Andy speeds through more stopped cars and runs the next red 
               light. SCREECH!! More swerving cars. Andy has to swerve 
               himself to avoid one. He bears down on the next light. 
               Meanwhile...

               GASTON

               is stopped on his bike, casually talking on a cellular phone, 
               two red lights ahead of Andy and Serafine. He hears their 
               bike and turns to see them zoom through the intersection in 
               back of him. Gaston curses, puts the phone in his pocket and 
               twists his throttle, accelerating through the red light.

               ANDY AND SERAFINE

               gain on Gaston. They're seventy five yards behind him.

               GASTON

               pulls a pistol and aims over his shoulder. BANG! He fires 
               back at them.

               SERAFINE

               pulls her pistol out. Both bikes roar through another red 
               light.

               A POLICE CAR pulls out onto the boulevard and turns on its 
               flashing lights and siren and pursues the bikes. The traffic 
               lights turn green.

               Gaston leads by fifty yards. The cop car pulls alongside 
               Andy and Serafine. She discreetly pockets her gun. The COP 
               in the passenger seat aims his gun at Andy.

                                     COP
                              (French)
                         Pull over! Now!

                                     ANDY
                         Shit!

               There's no choice. They pull over. GASTON speeds safely away, 
               looking back at them and laughing. The cop car stops ahead 
               of them and the COPS get out, guns drawn.

                                     FIRST COP
                              (French)
                         Hands in the air! Now!

               Andy and Serafine put up their hands. The first cop goes 
               back to check the police radio, which is beeping. The second 
               cop keeps his gun aimed at Andy's head. He's furious.

                                     SECOND COP
                              (French)
                         Hot shot huh? You know how many 
                         officers die in high speed chases?

                                     SERAFINE
                              (French)
                         Moron! The guy ahead of us has a 
                         gun! He's the one you should stop!

                                     SECOND COP
                         Shut up! I don't need you to tell me 
                         my job. It's always "the other guy"!

                                     SERAFINE
                         He's going to kill people you ignorant 
                         shithead!

                                     SECOND COP
                         Okay! That's it! You're under arrest! 
                         Maybe you'll learn some respect in 
                         jail!

               Serafine curses again. Andy tries to calm her down. The 
               arguing escalates... In the car, the first cop is talking on 
               the radio.

                                     FIRST COP
                         Really?

               He turns, looks out his window and sees

               RENE AND FRANCOIS

               parked in their unmarked car. Rene is talking with him on 
               the radio. Francois waves.

               THE SECOND COP

               is trying to put handcuffs on Serafine. She's still screaming 
               at him. He's incensed. The first cop gets out of the car and 
               walks up to them.

                                     FIRST COP
                              (to Andy and Serafine)
                         You can go.

               His partner looks at him, incredulous, red-faced.

                                     SECOND COP
                              (French - to first 
                              cop)
                         WHAT!?

                                     FIRST COP
                              (ignores 2nd cop)
                         Drive safely.

                                     ANDY
                         Merci.

               Serafine smiles at the second cop. Andy peels out, races 
               through the red light and disappears down the boulevard. The 
               cops watch them go, then turn to each other. The second cop 
               is apoplectic - about to explode.

               INT. UNMARKED CAR

               Rene and Francois speed off to keep pace with Andy. Rene is 
               dialing his cellular phone. As they pass the other police 
               car, we glimpse the two cops in an angry shoving match against 
               the car. Rene's call goes through.

               INT. SAINT SEVERIN CHURCH

               LeDuc is on the balcony, studying the stained glass panels 
               and consulting an old book. The cellular phone in his coat 
               pocket rings. An OLD PRIEST nearby frowns at him.

                                     LEDUC
                              (French - into phone)
                         Hello.
                              (Pause)
                         I'll meet you there in ten minutes.

               He hangs up. The priest is still frowning at him. LeDuc shrugs 
               gruffly - "what do you want from me?" and turns back to the 
               stained glass.

               As the church bells sound ten o'clock we cut to different 
               panels: Several scenes of werewolves terrorizing people. A 
               scene where some people mix potions and dump a strange flower 
               into a cauldron. Another shows an evil looking man shaking 
               his arm defiantly at a frowning sun - though he is human his 
               raised arm is the enlarged, hairy limb of a werewolf. Another 
               shows a saint throwing the strange flower into a fire in the 
               town square.

                                     LEDUC
                              (French)
                         Thank God for Saint Severin.

               The bells strike ten. LeDuc checks his watch, closes his 
               book and hurries off.

               EXT. TERRENCE'S APT. BUILDING

               Music cue: "Evil" by Howlin' Wolf. Gaston stops, jumps off 
               his bike, and runs into the court yard.

               ANDY AND SERAFINE

               speed along on the bike, weaving through narrow side streets.

               GASTON

               riding the wire cage elevator in the apartment building down 
               to the basement. He gets out and walks down the dank hallway, 
               past several padlocked doors. He stops at one with a MCDERMOTT 
               nameplate. He's about to shoot it off, then looking around, 
               thinks again. He grabs the lock and, grimacing with the 
               effort, twists it off with his bare hands.

               ANDY AND SERAFINE

               stuck behind a garbage truck on a narrow street. Andy hops 
               the curb and races down the sidewalk, scattering pedestrians.

               GASTON

               flicks on the light switch in the wine cellar. There are six 
               large racks of wine bottles. He walks past them, scanning 
               the bottles. He stops at the third rack and removes a bottle. 
               The label reads "Chateau Margaux". He tries to peer inside, 
               but it's too hard to see. Instead, he hurls it at the wall - 
               SMASH!! Wine sprays everywhere, but no metal cylinder. He 
               grabs another bottle. SMASH!! Just wine. He grabs another...

               ANDY AND SERAFINE

               arrive in front of the apartment and hop off their bike. 
               Serafine eyes GASTON'S BIKE hatefully. Andy pulls her along.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Wait a second...

               She pulls out her gun. BLAM! BLAM! She blasts the gas tank - 
               WOOF! The bike goes up in a fireball. Serafine nods, 
               satisfied. Andy looks at her like she's nuts. They rush into 
               the courtyard.

               GASTON

               throws another bottle. SMASH! Just wine. The floor is awash 
               in the pricey Burgundy. He throws another bottle. SMASH! 
               Nothing. He licks his fingers. He's enjoying this...

               SERAFINE AND ANDY

               In the elevator, going down, maddeningly slowly. Through the 
               window they can see the full moon in the sky. Andy checks 
               his watch. They look at each other nervously.

               GASTON

               Throws another - SMASH! A small METAL CYLINDER clinks as it 
               bounces on the floor. Gaston picks it up and smiles. BANG! A 
               gunshot hits Gaston in the arm - he drops the cylinder. 
               Serafine and Andy stand in the doorway.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Dirty bastard...

               Serafine fires again - BANG! The shot misses as Gaston hits 
               the deck and draws his gun in one very fast motion, taking 
               aim at Andy who's rushing towards him.

                                     GASTON
                         That's far enough!

               Andy stops, Gaston's gun aimed at his chest. Serafine steps 
               slowly towards Gaston, her gun aimed at him.

                                     GASTON
                              (to Serafine)
                         Another step and he's dead!

                                     ANDY
                         Go ahead Serafine. Blow him away.

               Serafine stops. The three of them stand there in a close 
               triangle, the metal cylinder on the floor between them. It's 
               a Mexican standoff... in Paris. Then...

                                     CLAUDE (O.S.)
                         Drop the gun!

               Claude is in the doorway holding a pistol. Serafine sees him 
               and turns back to Gaston, smiling.

                                     SERAFINE
                              (to Gaston)
                         You heard him. Do it!

               Gaston just smiles back at her. Claude steps forwards and 
               cocks his gun against Serafine's head.

                                     CLAUDE
                         I said drop the gun.

               Serafine's expression turns confused, horrified. Andy is 
               shocked. She drops the gun. Claude picks it up and pockets 
               it, keeping his gun on Serafine, who stares at him, aghast.

                                     ANDY
                         You bastard! God! I should've known. 
                         You wanted the cure all for yourself!

                                     GASTON
                         Cure!? Ha-ha-ha!

               Andy and Serafine react with confusion to Gaston's outburst. 
               Claude picks up the metal cylinder and unscrews its cap with 
               his free hand. He slides out a vial filled with amber fluid 
               and holds it to up to the light. He smiles.

                                     CLAUDE
                         No, it's no cure. It's something 
                         much more interesting.

                                     SERAFINE
                         You fucking liar!

                                     CLAUDE
                              (with mock alarm)
                         Oh, did I hurt the little girl's 
                         feelings? Well excusez moi... I 
                         confess my desire for ADM is quite 
                         "intense". So I deceived you and our 
                         poor friend Terry - a competent 
                         technician, but let's face it, a bit 
                         naive. "The great cure for 
                         lycanthropy!" Hmph. He didn't have 
                         the vision to grasp the potential of 
                         ADAM, until it was too late. And 
                         even then, he came rushing down to 
                         tell me, as if I would be just as 
                         shocked! Ha.

               He pockets the vial, pulls out the white "cyanide" tablet 
               and pops it in his mouth. Andy reacts with shock.

                                     CLAUDE
                              (off Andy's look, 
                              crunching up tablet 
                              in his mouth)
                         Oh this? Rolaids. I had a midnight 
                         snack that... disagreed with me.

               Serafine's been doing a slow burn. She explodes and lunges 
               at Claude, knocking his gun out of his hand.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Fucking traitor!

               She picks Claude up and hurls him across the room. CRASH!! 
               Claude smashes into a rack of wine bottles. Serafine jumps 
               after him and dives on top of him pummeling him in a blind 
               rage. Andy looks at her, agog.

                                     ANDY
                         Wait a second...

               He and Gaston notice Claude's gun at the same time. They 
               both dive for it. Andy grabs it but Gaston steps on his hand 
               and aims his gun down at him.

                                     GASTON
                         You want to be cured?

               He cocks the gun. Andy lets go of Claude's gun. Gaston picks 
               it up and aims one gun at Andy and the other at Serafine, 
               who's wrestling with Claude. Claude throws her off and she 
               lands on her butt next to Andy. Andy looks at Serafine.

                                     ANDY
                         What the fuck!? You too!?

                                     SERAFINE
                              (stammering)
                         I... I didn't think you would... I'm 
                         sorry... I believed that son-of-a-
                         bitch...

               Claude gets to his feet, drenched with wine and smarting 
               from Serafine's punches. He walks over to Serafine and kicks 
               her in the face.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Shut up, you foul mouthed little 
                         cunt. I don't have time for your 
                         histrionics.

                                     GASTON
                         Give me the ADM old man.

               Gaston is aiming one of his guns at Claude.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Oh for Christ's sakes Gaston. Can't 
                         you rise above the level of common 
                         thug just this once?

                                     GASTON
                         Give it to me!

                                     CLAUDE
                         Don't be an idiot. There are certain 
                         procedures one must -

                                     GASTON
                         NOW!

               Claude sighs. He takes the vial from his pocket and walks 
               over to Gaston.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Very well then...

               Gaston grabs the vial, uncaps it and drinks it down greedily. 
               He stands there, waiting. Nothing happens...

                                     ANDY
                         Ha. Some wonder drug...

                                     GASTON
                         Why isn't it doing anything!?

                                     CLAUDE
                         I told you. It's not ready.

               Claude turns to the noise of footsteps and a walkie-talkie 
               in the hallway. Four uniformed officers plus Rene and Francois 
               storm into the room, guns drawn.

                                     COPS
                              (French/English)
                         Freeze! Drop your weapons! Hands up!

               Andy and Serafine put up their hands. Gaston brandishes his 
               guns at the cops, then sees the six guns aimed at him and 
               drops it. LeDuc walks in.

                                     CLAUDE
                              (French - to LeDuc)
                         Thank God! These hoodlums tried to 
                         rob me!

                                     LEDUC
                              (French - to Claude)
                         Put up your hands.

                                     CLAUDE
                              (French)
                         But surely -

               LeDuc cocks his pistol and aims it at Claude.

                                     LEDUC
                              (French)
                         Now!

               Claude puts his hands up.

                                     CLAUDE
                              (French)
                         What's the charge?

                                     LEDUC
                              (French)
                         There is no charge.
                              (English)
                         Everybody comes in for a few 
                         questions. Everything checks out, 
                         you will go free. After midnight.

               Claude frowns. Gaston swears. Andy looks at Serafine, shocked 
               and confused. She looks back at him, angry and sad.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. STREET - NIGHT

               The cops are herding the handcuffed "questionees" into the 
               back of a reinforced paddy wagon. LeDuc talks to the DRIVER, 
               and another COP in the passenger seat.

                                     LEDUC
                              (French)
                         Godard is waiting for you at Rocherout 
                         jail. Hurry... And don't stop for 
                         anything. Good luck.

               The driver nods. It roars off, lights flashing and siren 
               wailing. LeDuc and the other cops head for their respective 
               cars. LeDuc barks orders to an AID who's at the ready with 
               the car radio.

                                     LEDUC
                         I want four separate maximum security 
                         cells ready. Get video cameras, 
                         photographers, and doctors.

               The aid nods and gets on the radio. LeDuc checks his watch. 
               It's 10:47.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               INT. PADDY WAGON

               Serafine hangs her head sullenly, in a quiet rage. She won't 
               meet Andy's gaze. He looks over at Claude and Gaston. Gaston 
               is restless, edgy. He grabs Claude by the collar and shakes 
               him.

                                     GASTON
                         Nothing's happening!

                                     ANDY
                         Looks like he lied to you too.

               Claude breaks Gaston's grip and shoves him back in his seat.

                                     CLAUDE
                              (calmly)
                         Relax my friend. It's still not ready.

               Andy looks back at Serafine. He shakes his head in disbelief.

                                     ANDY
                         Now I remember why I didn't want to 
                         come to Paris. Everyone you meet is 
                         a goddam werewolf!

               Serafine stares bitterly at her feet.

                                     SERAFINE
                         I hope they fucking fry us all.

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah. French fries...

               SLAM! He's interrupted by the sound of Gaston's head snapping 
               back against the wall. His eyes bulge wide. He grins and 
               starts to laugh. First a little. Then a lot.

                                     GASTON
                         Yes! Yes! Ha! Haha hahaha...

               He stands up, laughing, power-mad. Suddenly his body is jerked 
               by a spasm and he falls to the floor. He's not laughing 
               anymore. He flails about wildly, croaking out strangled cries, 
               gripped with a terrible seizure.

               IN THE FRONT CAB

               The TWO GUARDS, the driver and his partner, hear the 
               commotion. The guard looks over to his partner, and chuckles.

                                     PARTNER
                         Aaooooo!!! Heh heh heh.

               They both laugh. The driver takes a sharp turn at high speed.

               IN THE BACK COMPARTMENT

               Gaston flops around on the floor like a fish, grabbed by a 
               flurry of convulsions. He bites off his tongue, spitting 
               blood everywhere. Finally, he goes rigid with one last 
               seizure, then falls totally limp. Andy studies the very dead 
               corpse.

                                     ANDY
                         It killed him... You coulda just 
                         used Draino. It's cheaper.

                                     CLAUDE
                         I told him it wasn't ready...

               Claude takes a folded PAPER CUP from his jacket pocket. He 
               blows into the cup to bring it back into shape. He then takes 
               a SHARPENED STEEL TUBE from his pocket, plunges it into 
               Gaston's neck, and fills the cup with the blood that pours 
               forth. Andy and Serafine are horrified. Claude puts the cup 
               of blood to his lips and pauses.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Now it's ready.

               He swallows the cup of blood down in one gulp, and sits back 
               to wait for the effects, smiling dreamily.

                                     CLAUDE
                         What is the curse of the werewolf? 
                         I'll tell you. The curse is to possess 
                         such awesome power and yet be 
                         completely unconscious of it. It may 
                         as well belong to someone else. But 
                         it wasn't always that way. A thousand 
                         years ago the Gauls had a drug 
                         powerful enough to unlock the door 
                         to lycanthropic consciousness, to 
                         full control. It came from 
                         moonsbreath. A small white flower 
                         once found in the hills of this 
                         region, until the thick headed crusade 
                         by our famous Saint Severin eradicated 
                         it for all eternity. But now, thanks 
                         to ADAM, the "curse" is over...

               As he says this, he holds up his RIGHT ARM. It begins to 
               mutate and grow, reshaping his arm into the grotesque, 
               powerful forelimb of the beast. PLINK! His swelling wrist 
               pops the handcuff easily.

                                     SERAFINE
                              (French)
                         Holy mother of God...

                                     ANDY
                         Fuck me...

               Claude rises to his feet, triumphant. He advances towards 
               Andy and Serafine, backing them up against the rear doors of 
               the van. He gently traces the outline of Serafine's face 
               with his werewolf hand. She bristles at his touch.

                                     CLAUDE
                         All my life I've worked to unlock 
                         the power of the unconscious mind. 
                         Well this is it. This is power!

                                     ANDY
                         You sure it's not just 'coz you jerk 
                         off too much?

               Claude cocks his werewolf fist and SLAMS it into the back 
               doors, inches from Andy's head. He leaves a deep dent, and 
               opens the doors just a crack. It's a gesture that seems 
               calculated to frighten them. It works.

               Claude holds up his LEFT ARM and transforms it to match his 
               right. It takes some effort and a little pain, but he keeps 
               a smile on his face throughout the process.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Don't you see what this means? I've 
                         broken through! I'm in total control! 
                         Not the moon! I can do whatever the 
                         fuck I want!

               SMASH!! Claude drives his left arm into the back doors, making 
               another huge dent, and opening the crack even wider.

               IN THE FRONT CAB

               The cops exchange worried looks. The one on the passenger 
               side slides open the viewing panel. Claude has his back to 
               him.

                                     COP
                              (French)
                         Hey! What's going on in -

               He stops short as Claude turns around, revealing his monstrous 
               arms. Mortified, the cop reaches for the SHOT GUN under the 
               dash. Claude races up towards the view window. As the guard 
               pokes the muzzle through the window, Claude grabs hold of 
               it. BLAM! The guard's shot hits the side wall. Claude rips 
               the gun from the guard angrily, and smashes it to pieces 
               against the wall, grinning like the devil himself.

               Meanwhile ANDY throws himself at the doors, kicking them, 
               trying in vain to break them open. He spots the SHOTGUN BARREL 
               on the floor and grabs it.

               CLAUDE reaches through the window and grabs the guard by the 
               head. He repeatedly smashes the guard's head against the 
               back wall of the cab.

                                     CLAUDE
                              (as he smashes the 
                              guard)
                         Don't you know... the wolf... is a 
                         protected... species!?

               The driver freaks out, seeing his partner get his head 
               crushed. THE PADDY WAGON swerves all over the road.

               ANDY uses the shotgun barrel to twist open the lock on the 
               van doors. As the vehicle swerves, he drops the barrel out 
               the door, and falls over. He calls to Serafine.

                                     ANDY
                         I need your help. Come on.

               She joins him and together they take a run at the back doors. 
               The doors open a little, but the lock still holds.

               Finished with the guard, Claude turns and sees what Andy and 
               Serafine are up to.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Wait!

               Andy and Serafine take another run - it works. THE DOORS 
               bust open, and Andy and Serafine, still handcuffed, go 
               tumbling out into THE STREET, rolling on the pavement.

               SCREECH! HONK! Cars swerve to avoid them, just barely. CRASH! 
               A minivan plows into a parked car. Claude watches from the 
               back of the van. He rears his head to the moon and smiles.

               IN THE CAB of the paddy wagon, the driver hears an unearthly 
               howl. It's hellish. Without looking away from the road, he 
               points his pistol through the hole in the compartment. He 
               adjusts THE MIRROR to see into the rear compartment - The 
               back doors are hanging open. He steals a look over his 
               shoulder - Other than Gaston's corpse, it's empty... He 
               breathes a sigh of relief and turns back to the road as -

               A HUGE WEREWOLF - Claude fully transformed - bursts through 
               the windshield and rips into him.

               THE PADDY WAGON is traveling over the Pont Neuf bridge. A 
               GASOLINE TRUCK approaches from the other direction. The 
               werewolf leaps off of the hood just as the paddy wagon, 
               swerving all over the road, hits the gasoline truck head on.

               KA-BOOM!! Both vehicles explode in a fireball, smash through 
               the side wall of the bridge, and plunge into THE RIVER.

               INT. SQUAD CAR

               LeDuc, following at a distance, is trying in vain to get the 
               paddy wagon driver on the radio.

                                     LEDUC
                         Allo! Jean-Louis! Respond! Allo!

               His partner slows the car. Traffic ahead is snarled. It's 
               chaos. He taps LeDuc on the arm and points...

                                     PARTNER
                         Inspector...

               Leduc sees the column of black smoke in the distance.

                                     LEDUC
                         Merde... merde, merde, merde.

               He slams his fist against the dash angrily.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. PARIS STREET, NIGHT

               Andy lies by the roadside, dazed, bruised, handcuffed, but 
               conscious. He sits up unsteadily, and looks for Serafine.

                                     ANDY
                         Serafine?

               He sees a small crowd of people a little further up the road, 
               outside a small bistro. He staggers up to them and pushes 
               his way through. Serafine is there on the ground by the curb, 
               eyes closed.

               Kneeling beside her, he turns angrily on the onlookers.

                                     ANDY
                         Get out of here! Go on! Move it!

               He shoos them away. Of course, they just back up a bit, still 
               gawking at the handcuffed couple.

                                     ANDY
                         Serafine... Get up, come on...

               Andy brushes away the hair from Serafine's face. He feels 
               her neck for a pulse - she has one. But as he takes his hand 
               away, he notices a smudge of BASE MAKE-UP has rubbed off on 
               his fingers. He looks at the back of Serafine's neck and 
               sees that the makeup had been covering A SCAR. It bears the 
               unmistakable star shape of the wound Andy inflicted on the 
               werewolf that bit him.

               Horrified, he stands and backs away a few feet. Serafine 
               opens her eyes, sees him.

                                     SERAFINE
                              (groggy)
                         Andy?... What? What is it?
                              (she sits up, her 
                              head clearing)
                         Andy... are you okay?

                                     ANDY
                         It was you... That night in the 
                         tunnels. You. You did this to me.

                                     SERAFINE
                         No I.... Andy, you can't be sure.

                                     ANDY
                         That's the scar where I stabbed you! 
                         Oh God... You deliberately took me 
                         down there so you could... God, I 
                         can't believe it!

               Serafine gets to her feet, a little unsteadily at first.

                                     SERAFINE
                         You made me go there. I tried to 
                         stop you! You wouldn't listen!

                                     ANDY
                         What was I? Your idea of a fuckin' 
                         hors d'oeuvre? Huh?

                                     SERAFINE
                         Shut up! You fucking shut up! What 
                         do you want? Huh? What the hell do 
                         you want?

               She walks over, grabs a steak knife from one of the outside 
               tables at the bistro, and charges at Andy, pulling open her 
               shirt... She offers him the knife, and pounds at her heart.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Here! Come on! Do it! Go ahead.

                                     ANDY
                         What...?

                                     SERAFINE
                         You know what. Kill me. Cut out my 
                         fucking heart. Go on! Do it!

               Enraged, Andy takes the knife. He and Serafine lock eyes. 
               For a second he's tempted, his blood boiling, heart pounding.

                                     ANDY
                         You're crazy.

               He throws the knife aside, turns and walks away.

                                     ANDY
                         This is all crazy!

               Serafine retrieves the knife and chases after him. She gets 
               in front of him and blocks his path. She holds the knife 
               point to her own chest.

                                     SERAFINE
                         The drug was a lie, but the legend 
                         in the church is true. Ask the undead.

               Andy just stares back at her, not knowing what to say. It's 
               all too much to believe. He shakes his head. He tries to go, 
               but she moves in front of him. She's determined.

                                     SERAFINE
                         We don't both have to die.

                                     ANDY
                              (softening)
                         I couldn't do it. Not to you.

               He sees her looking up. He follows her gaze to the FULL MOON. 
               It's getting late. Andy shudders, wipes the sweat from his 
               brow. He's already starting to feel the heat in his blood.

                                     SERAFINE
                         I can't go through another night. I 
                         won't.

               Andy takes her hand and guides the knife away from her chest.

                                     ANDY
                         I know... I'm already burning up... 
                         Look, I'm not going to go through 
                         this another night either. But we 
                         still have some time to get Claude. 
                         He'll just kill more people, and 
                         spread the curse.

               She's desperate, tears welling up in her eyes.

                                     SERAFINE
                         We can't stop him. Not now. 
                         Handcuffed, with no kind of weapons. 
                         Please Andy...

                                     ANDY
                         No. We have to try. We'll figure 
                         something out. And if midnight comes 
                         before we can get to him, well, then 
                         we go together. Deal?
                              (he extends a cuffed 
                              hand)
                         Shake a paw?

               She laughs despite her tears, puts her cuffed hands over his 
               head and hugs him tightly.

                                     SERAFINE
                         I know where he'll go.

                                     ANDY
                         Where?

                                     SERAFINE
                         Somewhere where there are no police, 
                         and plenty to eat.

               Andy looks at her. He knows what she's driving at.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. PETIT PONT - NIGHT

               LeDuc and Napier stand on the bridge, which has been blocked 
               off, watching the tow truck drag the charred wreck of the 
               paddy wagon from the river. Ambulances wait nearby. Firemen 
               are still putting out small piles of flaming debris.

                                     NAPIER
                              (French)
                         Poor Bazin and Racine. At least they 
                         brought those monsters down with 
                         them.

               LeDuc isn't listening - he sees something that makes his 
               face go slack: The paddy wagon emerges from the murky water 
               revealing the open, banged-up back door with several large 
               FIST PRINTS in it. He checks his watch - it's 11:32.

                                     LEDUC
                              (French - to himself)
                         Impossible...
                              (to Napier - urgent)
                         Get headquarters on the radio.

               Napier isn't paid to ask questions. He hops to it.

                                     NAPIER
                         Right away sir.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               INT. UNDERGROUND PARTY - NIGHT

               Andy and Serafine emerge from the tunnel, wearing grim, 
               determined expressions. The party is in full swing - throbbing 
               beats and sweaty dancing bodies. They walk straight across 
               the dance floor, pushing their way through the crowd. Amongst 
               the variety of freaky types here, no one raises an eyebrow 
               at two people in handcuffs.

               Serafine, who's scanning the room, is approached by a leather 
               clad HIPSTER GUY.

                                     HIPSTER GUY
                         Serafine, mon belle! Ca va?

               He goes to kiss her on both cheeks. Without breaking stride, 
               she puts her handcuffed hands on his face and shoves, sending 
               him reeling.

               Serafine points out a gang of four militant skinheads off in 
               a corner. Andy nods and smiles.

                                     ANDY
                         This could be fun.

               They make their way to the skinheads. Andy walks up to the 
               SKINHEAD LEADER, who's got a swastika tattoo, a bad 
               disposition, and a fifty pound advantage on Andy.

                                     ANDY
                         I got something you want. Follow me.

               Andy and Serafine walk into A SMALL CHAMBER off the main 
               space. The skinhead signals his mates to come along, slips 
               on some BRASS KNUCKLES, and follows Andy into

               THE CHAMBER

               The skinheads surround Andy and Serafine. There's no one 
               else in the room. The skinhead leader looks at Andy's 
               handcuffs and sniggers.

                                     SKINHEAD
                         What do you got, pervert?

                                     ANDY
                         I got Hitler's dick in a jar. And 
                         the funny thing is it's still in 
                         Goerring's mouth.

               The skinhead turns red with rage and throws a punch at Andy's 
               head. With lightning speed, Andy grabs the skinhead's fist, 
               twists his arm around his back and hurls him across the room. 
               He slams face first into the stone wall and collapses on the 
               floor with a THUD.

               Simultaneously, the other three skinheads attack. Serafine 
               BASHES one across the face with both fists, sending him to 
               the floor. The other gets her in a headlock from behind. She 
               runs backwards and - SLAM! - crushes him against the wall.

               The third skinhead tries to kick Andy in the groin. Andy 
               grabs his boot and flips him over backwards - he actually 
               does a full back flip and lands on his face.

               The leader groggily pulls a pistol and aims it at Andy. Andy 
               snatches it out of his hand.

                                     ANDY
                         Didn't even have to ask.

                                     SERAFINE
                              (French)
                         All your weapons, on the floor! Now!

               The skinheads slide out some LEAD PIPES, a SWITCHBLADE, 
               another PISTOL, and an army surplus GRENADE. Andy and Serafine 
               scoop them up, except the lead pipes.

                                     ANDY
                         Neo-Nazis. Ya gotta love 'em.
                              (to the Skinheads)
                         Merci beau coup, monsieurs.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               INT. TUNNEL - NIGHT

               Music cue: "After Midnight (we're gonna let it all hang out)". 
               Andy's gun is pressed against the chain on Serafine's 
               handcuffs - BANG! The chain is broken. BANG! She returns the 
               favor and his chain is broken.

               They walk into the DRIPPING, dank tunnel, away from the party, 
               which fades away in the background. Each carries a pistol 
               and a flashlight. BEADS OF SWEAT appear on their foreheads.

               The tunnel tilts downhill. Heavier DRIPPING. They turn a 
               corner and...

               SLAM! Something barrels into them - it's a HYSTERICAL GIRL. 
               She's about nineteen and splattered with blood. She SCREAMS 
               uncontrollably. Serafine holds her by the shoulders, trying 
               to calm her.

                                     GIRL
                              (French)
                         Ahhhhhhhh! A monster! My God! It got 
                         my boyfriend! Noooooo!

                                     SERAFINE
                         Ou!? Ou est le monstre!?

                                     GIRL
                         Ahhhh! Let me go! Let me gooooo!!

               She's off the deep end, flailing at Serafine, who keeps trying 
               to calm her down. There's no time for this. Andy presses his 
               gun to her temple. She shuts up and stares at him with wide, 
               terror stricken eyes.

                                     ANDY
                              (calm, firm)
                         Ou est le monstre?

               She points back down the tunnel she came out of.

                                     GIRL
                              (French)
                         Down the stairs.

                                     ANDY
                         Merci.

               He lets her go. She starts SCREAMING again and continues on, 
               disappearing into darkness. Andy winces and holds his ears.

                                     SERAFINE
                         No wonder he let her go.

                                     ANDY
                         Really.

               They run in the direction she pointed. They arrive at the 
               intersection with A STAIRWAY to the right. They start down 
               it. They see something up ahead -

               SOMEONE'S HAND is sticking out on the ground from a passage 
               at a landing on the staircase.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Her boyfriend.

               The hand moves a bit, pulls back and disappears into the 
               crossing passage.

                                     ANDY
                         He's alive. C'mon.

               They hurry down to the landing, shine their light into the 
               passage. The hand is severed, and A BIG RAT is dragging it 
               along with some difficulty. A dozen or other rats munch on 
               scraps of flesh scattered over a grisly mess of blood and 
               body parts. Andy and Serafine stare at it for a moment. 
               Suddenly Andy looks away.

                                     ANDY
                         God. I can't believe it.

                                     SERAFINE
                         What?

                                     ANDY
                              (disturbed)
                         It's making me hungry.

               A beast HOWL echoes through the tunnels. Serafine shines he 
               flashlight on some bloody beast foot/paw prints leading down 
               the stairs.

               They follow the bloody prints down the stairs and come to an 
               ancient ARCHED DOORWAY with a skull set in the arch and a 
               chiseled inscription. Andy points to the inscription.

                                     ANDY
                         What does it say?

                                     SERAFINE
                              (reading)
                         "Stop! Beyond this passage lie the 
                         catacombs of Paris: the exclusive 
                         domain of the dead."

               Andy gestures back to the bloody remains.

                                     ANDY
                         We'll say we're with him.

               They walk through the gate and enter

               THE CATACOMBS

               Andy shines his flashlight around, illuminating two large 
               tunnels which lead into a twisting, intestinal maze, lined 
               from floor to ceiling with HUMAN SKULLS and FEMURS. The bones 
               form the building blocks of the tunnel walls and are arranged 
               in various patterns - from crucifixes to Masonic pyramids 
               and even pentagrams. Ground water seeps from the ceilings 
               and walls, DRIPPING over the eroded, crumbling bones.

               Despite the situation, Andy can't help but be dumb struck by 
               the spectacular necropolis.

                                     ANDY
                         Whoa...

                                     SERAFINE
                         After the revolution, the Paris 
                         cemeteries overflowed. They dug up 
                         all the old bodies and brought them 
                         here. Seven million people. Mostly 
                         very poor.

                                     ANDY
                         Pretty stylish digs for a bunch of 
                         paupers.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Well, they are French.

                                     ANDY
                         Right.

               Another eerie HOWL echoes through the maze. Andy looks down 
               both main tunnels - the howl seems to come from each of them.

                                     ANDY
                         These tunnels must loop around and 
                         connect.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Let's go from both ends. We'll cut 
                         him off.

               Andy considers this.

                                     ANDY
                         Okay. Be careful.

                                     SERAFINE
                         You too.

               She kisses him. They're both sweating heavily now. She starts 
               off to the right. He watches her go for a moment and then 
               walks down the other skull lined tunnel.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. PETIT PONT - NIGHT

               The CHARRED BODIES of Gaston and the two cops lie on the 
               river bank, near the wreck. LeDuc surveys them with a few 
               other cops. Napier leans out of a nearby car with a radio 
               handset. The bells of nearby Notre Dame begin to ring.

                                     NAPIER
                              (French)
                         It's headquarters sir. They got a 
                         report.

               LeDuc rushes over and grabs the handset.

                                     LEDUC
                              (French - into radio)
                         What've you got?

                                     DESK OFFICER (V.O.)
                         Just a crazy call from a girl, 
                         probably fucked up on drugs. I 
                         wouldn't bother you but you said 
                         call with anything unusual.

                                     LEDUC
                         What did she say?

                                     DESK OFFICER (V.O.)
                         Something about a monster, 
                         underground, in the catacombs under 
                         Place Denfert.

                                     LEDUC
                         I need two tactical assault squads 
                         at Place Denfert immediately. You 
                         can tell the commissioner it's a 
                         code red.

                                     DESK OFFICER (V.O.)
                         But Inspector, this girl, I wouldn't 
                         call her reliable.

                                     LEDUC
                         Now!

                                     DESK OFFICER (V.O.)
                         Yes sir.

               LeDuc throws the handset back at Napier. The church bells 
               strike twelve.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               INT. CATACOMBS

               Andy walks along carefully, shining the flashlight ahead of 
               him, his gun at the ready. His breathing gets heavier. His 
               face gets redder. More sweat. His heart pounds in his ears.

               The tunnel follows a serpentine path, with many smaller 
               passages and anterooms off to the sides.

               Andy sees some flickering light reflecting off the wet skulls 
               up ahead. He approaches it. It's coming out of AN ANTECHAMBER. 
               He holds his gun out in front of him and steps quietly. He 
               peers into the antechamber and finds

               TWO HALF EATEN BODIES

               It's the old hag and the wino he saw in the tunnels at the 
               first party. They've been killed very recently - blood still 
               drips from their gaping wounds.

               He kneels over the wino's body. There's a big chunk missing 
               from his neck. Andy stares at the BLOODY FLESH, transfixed. 
               He shudders with a sudden spasm. His breathing gets quicker. 
               More sweat. He reaches towards the wound, his hand shaking, 
               and touches the flesh. Blood runs down his fingers. He slowly 
               brings his hand back towards his mouth.

                                     TERRENCE (O.S.)
                         Don't do it, Andy. Fight it with 
                         everything you've got.

               Andy looks up to see UNCLE TERRENCE, stumps and all, sitting 
               across from him.

                                     ANDY
                         Uncle Terrence, you're...

                                     TERRENCE
                         Yeah, I finally "checked out", thank 
                         God. But there's a bit of unfinished 
                         business.

                                     ANDY
                         Claude.

                                     TERRENCE
                         I never thought I'd ask this of 
                         anyone, Andy, but do me a favor and 
                         kill the evil son-of-a-bitch, will 
                         you?

               A SNARL cuts him off. Andy jumps up, steps out into the main 
               tunnel and shines his light.

               THE BEAST

               rounds a curve and comes into view about thirty yards away. 
               It's running straight at Andy and closing fast. Andy aims 
               the gun. BANG! A miss - the bullet shatters a skull on the 
               wall. BANG! Another miss. BANG! The bullet hits the beast in 
               the shoulder. It stumbles but keeps coming. BANG! A miss. 
               Andy aims carefully.

                                     ANDY
                         C'mon you mother...

               BANG! A direct hit in the chest. The beast falls. Snarling 
               in pain.

               BANG! Andy blasts again, but the beast drags itself to the 
               safety of a recessed area off the tunnel, out of Andy's line 
               of fire. Andy walks forward, listening to the horrible wails 
               of the beast, thrashing around in a puddle on the floor.

               Andy aims his gun and his flashlight as he nears the corner 
               of the recess. The wailing and thrashing settles down. Andy 
               proceeds cautiously. He rounds the corner, and shines the 
               light on

               SERAFINE

               naked, bleeding from bullet wounds in the chest, shoulder, 
               and neck. She lies still. Andy sighs with anguish. He drops 
               to his knees.

                                     ANDY
                         No! Oh God!

               He puts down his gun and cradles her head in his hands. She's 
               breathing - just barely. She looks into his eyes. Her voice 
               is weak.

                                     ANDY
                         Oh God. Shit...

                                     SERAFINE
                         Andy...

               She reaches up feebly and manages to grab the SWITCHBLADE 
               from his back pocket. She clicks it open and hands it to 
               Andy.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Do it.

               Andy's shaking, shuddering - his breathing erratic.

                                     ANDY
                         No. It's over.

               He shakily presses the gun to his own head.

                                     TERRENCE (O.S.)
                         Don't, Andy. Stop Claude.

               Andy looks up. Terrence, Marcel, Amy, and a dozen other 
               mutilated, rotting undead, presumably Serafine's victims, 
               stand in the tunnel, looking on solemnly.

                                     MARCEL (O.S.)
                         Either way works for us...

                                     AMY
                         But you better hurry.

               Claude's stentorian voice echo's from beyond a curve in the 
               tunnel.

                                     CLAUDE (O.S.)
                         You can't turn back Andy.

               CLAUDE

               in human form, walks towards the glow from Andy's flashlight 
               around the bend. His naked body is taut and muscular - it 
               looks thirty years younger than it should. His face is younger 
               too - he looks the picture of a powerful young warrior.

                                     CLAUDE
                         "Man is something to be surpassed! A 
                         rope, stretched over the abyss between 
                         the animal and the Superman". Neitzche 
                         was right, Andy. And now, I have 
                         crossed that abyss. I am no longer 
                         man OR beast, but man AND beast. 
                         ADAM has lived up to its name. I am 
                         the first new man, and my God it is 
                         FUCKING MAGNIFICENT! You're already 
                         half way there Andy. Feel the power 
                         in your veins. With ADAM, you could 
                         harness it. Master it. Let it 
                         transform you into something more 
                         glorious than your wildest dreams!

               ANDY

               is shaking violently - on the brink of transforming. Serafine 
               raises the blade to him again. She's fading fast.

                                     SERAFINE
                         Don't let me die for nothing...

               Andy winces with pain - his brow bulges, his teeth enlarge, 
               the transformation is starting. Uncle Terrence is worried.

                                     TERRENCE
                         Andy!

               CLAUDE

               still walking. The light is getting brighter - he's almost 
               around the bend. He's buzzing with a scary kind of euphoria.

                                     CLAUDE
                         The choice is yours Andy: deny your 
                         own blood, die an unfulfilled child, 
                         or face the challenge of mind and 
                         body united at last. Which will it 
                         be?

               He rounds the corner and sees Andy hunched over Serafine's 
               body. He keeps walking.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Don't be confused by old beliefs. 
                         This is beyond mere words like good 
                         or evil. You have to feel it!

               ANDY

               whips around, BLOOD streaming from his mouth, gun aimed, 
               grip rock solid, his features back to normal, eyes locked on 
               the beast with determined, controlled rage.

                                     ANDY
                         Feel this.

               BLAM! BLAM! He pumps out two shots. One hits Claude in the 
               upper left part of his CHEST. The other hits his CHEEK, exits 
               at the back of his jaw and shatters the cheekbone of A SKULL 
               on the wall behind him. He screams in pain and dives for 
               cover into a SMALL INTERSECTING TUNNEL.

               Andy gets up, pausing for a second to look back at Serafine's 
               face. It looks peaceful. The undead are gone. He starts after 
               Claude.

               CLAUDE

               sits leaning against a wall of skulls. The face wound is 
               bleeding but not mortal.

                                     CLAUDE
                         Stupid boy...

               With an awesome rage he grimaces and starts to TRANSFORM HIS 
               LEFT SIDE - his muscles swell around the chest wound and THE 
               BULLET actually squeezes out of the hole and falls to the 
               ground. The wound closes up as the flesh keeps morphing and 
               growing hair.

               ANDY

               creeps around the corner, gun and flashlight aimed, towards 
               the small tunnel.

               When the flashlight beam falls on Claude, he's in mid pounce - 
               rocketing at Andy with bad intent. BANG! Andy gets off a 
               shot - it hits Claude in his THIGH as he tackles Andy.

               They wrestle, Claude in mid-transformation, his left side 
               further along, hairier, his facial bones shifting. His thigh 
               swells and ripples and THE BULLET SQUIRTS OUT of its wound.

               His left arm, mostly transformed, grips Andy's gun hand. 
               BANG! Andy squeezes off a shot, blowing off the tip of 
               Claude's transforming THUMB.

               CRUNCH! Claude clamps his vice like grip and crushes the 
               gun. Andy wrenches his hand away as Claude hurls him off 
               like a rag doll.

               Andy flies through the air and SMASHES into the tunnel wall. 
               The wall of ancient SKULLS and BONES shatters and collapses 
               around Andy - burying him in ossified fragments.

               Andy lifts himself out of the pile and looks at Claude, who 
               lies on the floor finishing his transformation. His right 
               side is catching up with his left and his head is now more 
               beast than human. All the while he glares at Andy and doesn't 
               appear vulner able.

               Andy takes advantage of the moment to get the hell away - he 
               runs into the tunnel, leaving Claude behind to finish 
               transforming.

               Andy makes a few quick turns through the maze - it seems he 
               has evaded Claude for the moment. He pulls the GRENADE from 
               his pocket, turns off his flashlight and pads along softly, 
               listening for the beast.

               Suddenly a sharp sound from behind him makes Andy jump.

                                     VOICE
                              (French - screaming)
                         STOP WHERE YOU ARE! HANDS UP!

               Andy turns around. A scared COP is aiming his gun at him, 
               shining a flashlight in his face. Andy puts his hands up.

                                     COP
                              (English)
                         It's you. You should be dead in that 
                         wreck with Bazin and Racine!

                                     ANDY
                         Shhh! Be quiet, man! We're not alone -

                                     COP
                         Shut up! Save your stories. The only 
                         thing I want to hear is you begging 
                         for your life. I want to see you 
                         suffer, like they did.
                              (he sees Andy's look 
                              of terror)
                         Haha! You're scared now, eh? Come 
                         on. Where's the scary monster now 
                         huh? Ha ha... We'll see who -

               A ROAR cuts him off. The cop spins around - the beam from 
               his flashlight flooding THE BEAST with light as it springs 
               through the air at him. Andy runs.

                                     COP
                              (French)
                         My God!

               He gets off one shot - it hits the beast in the arm, but 
               it's too late. The beast clamps it's massive jaw onto the 
               cop's neck and bites his head clean off. THE HEAD rolls across 
               the floor and comes to rest in a pile of skulls.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               SERAFINE'S BODY

               In the tunnel. Two queasy cops stand over it. LeDuc approaches 
               them.

                                     LEDUC
                              (French)
                         What have you got?

                                     COP
                              (French - disturbed)
                         It's the girl. Someone cut out her 
                         heart.

                                     LEDUC
                              (Matter of factly)
                         Good.

               The cops look at him like he's nuts.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               ANDY

               is crouched at a corner of two catacomb tunnels, grenade 
               clutched in his hand. He hears something and carefully peers 
               around the corner.

               ANDY'S POV

               At the end of the long tunnel of bones, the beast lurks at 
               another intersection, sniffing the air and growling, some 
               forty yards away.

               Andy ducks back around the corner. He holds up the grenade, 
               pulls the pin, and whispers a quick prayer...

                                     ANDY
                              (to himself)
                         Just throw a strike...

               With a determined grunt, he pitches the grenade around the 
               corner and then ducks back. Suddenly the beast's growling 
               stops. Andy grits his teeth and closes his eyes, awaiting 
               the explosion. Just silence. Then a small skittering sound 
               close by. He opens his eyes.

               THE GRENADE

               skitters to a stop, a couple of feet from him.

                                     ANDY
                         Shit!

               He bolts and gets five steps from it when

               KA-BOOM!! It explodes behind him, launching him through the 
               air along with a spray of bones and rubble. He lands twenty 
               feet away and clutches his left leg, wincing in pain.

                                     ANDY
                         Ahh! Son of a bitch!

               LEDUC

               and the cops turn towards the sound of the blast.

                                     LEDUC
                              (French)
                         Let's go.

               ANDY

               struggles to his feet. He clicks on his flashlight and sees 
               the blast has caved in the tunnel- a wall of rubble seals 
               Andy off from the beast.

               Andy breaths a sigh of relief. At least he's got time. He 
               starts limping away from the wall of rubble...

               SMASH!! The rubble explodes again as the beast crashes through 
               it like a freight train, sending rocks and bones flying.

               Andy runs as fast as he can with his bad leg. The beast closes 
               in on him quickly. Andy jumps up for a NARROW OPENING in the 
               tunnel ceiling. He grabs the metal rung inside and pulls 
               himself up into the vertical shaft as the beast pounces. The 
               beast catches Andy's foot with its claw. Andy pulls out of 
               his sneaker and just barely eludes the beast's grasp.

               Andy climbs up the metal rungs in this old service shaft - 
               barely wide enough for his body. The beast claws and gnashes 
               his teeth at the opening but can't fit in - for now.

               Andy reaches an iron grate, pushes it up and crawls out into

               ANOTHER DRIPPY TUNNEL

               Like the ones near the party - no skulls. There's a lot of 
               water in this one. It looks familiar.

               CLAUDE

               is transforming back into human shape. His face is now more 
               human than beast. He screams into the vertical passage in a 
               growling, not quite human voice.

                                     CLAUDE
                         You have no advantage, Andy! My body 
                         has no limits!

               ANDY

               looks around in the tunnel. He sees something (we don't). He 
               limps off towards it.

               CLAUDE

               in his human shape, crawls into the vertical service passage 
               and climbs up the rungs.

               Claude emerges from the shaft into the dark tunnel. Andy's 
               no where in sight. We hear only dripping water.

                                     CLAUDE
                         So this is how you choose to die. 
                         Hiding like a scared rabbit. Just 
                         praying I don't find you...

               ANDY

               crouches under a concrete ledge in a very dark space. Claude's 
               voice sounds distant, echoey, and competes with the closer 
               sound of trickling water.

                                     CLAUDE (O.S.)
                         Well I assure you, your nervous sweat 
                         glands will give you away soon enough 
                         my trembling little rabbit.

               CLAUDE

               begins transforming. He falls to the ground and groans with 
               joyous pain as his body noisily transforms.

                                     CLAUDE
                         AHHHH! IT'S FUCKING GLORIOUS! 
                         AAAARRGGGHHH!!

               ANDY

               huddles in his hiding place, looking out into the darkness.

                                     ANDY
                              (to himself)
                         C'mon already...

               A glint of light appears in a puddle on the ground. Andy's 
               eyes widen.

               CLAUDE

               His head is transforming - his exaltations become more 
               animalistic.

                                     CLAUDE/BEAST
                         RRAAAAAARRRRRRGGG!!

               LEDUC

               still in the catacombs, hears Claude's yell echo through the 
               tunnels. He thinks it came from above. He runs towards a 
               stairway.

               THE BEAST

               Claude is fully transformed. He sniffs the air, locks in on 
               a scent and sets off through the tunnel.

               ANDY

               watches intently as the light in the puddle gets brighter. 
               It starts reflecting on the wet concrete walls of this tunnel.

                                     ANDY
                              (to himself)
                         Now.

               Andy clicks on the flashlight, shines it at himself, and 
               yells for all he's worth.

                                     ANDY
                         HEY YOU DIRTY EVIL FUCK! C'MON AND 
                         GET ME! I DARE YOUR UGLY ASS! (etc.)

               THE BEAST

               cocks its head towards Andy's taunts. The sound of flowing 
               water is close by. The beast pounces towards Andy's voice, 
               into

               THE WET, SLIPPERY STAIRWAY

               that Andy slid down that first night in the tunnels. The 
               beast loses it's footing and slips helplessly down the slick, 
               eroded stone, GROWLING furiously.

               LEDUC

               runs down a tunnel, towards Andy's screaming voice. The beam 
               of his flashlight illuminates the landing ahead of him, 
               halfway down the stairwell. He sees THE BEAST slide by, 
               clawing in vain for a grip.

               A METRO TRAIN

               screams around the bend, lighting up the whole metro tunnel. 
               Andy is still SCREAMING from his refuge under a ledge.

               THE BEAST

               shoots out of the stairwell and lands on the tracks. It looks 
               up, frozen for a split second - it's horrible snarling face 
               is caught in the speeding train's harsh glare...

               SMASH!! Impact. The beast is sucked under the wheels and 
               ground to bits between track and wheels.

               LEDUC

               at the landing, looks down the stairwell as the train rushes 
               past.

               ANDY

               huddled next to the passing train, clenches his fist in 
               victory.

                                     ANDY
                         Yes!

               The train passes. Andy gets up and shines his flashlight 
               around the ground. The beasts body lies in chunks, smears, 
               and puddles. The parts begin morphing back into Claude's 
               human forms - A THIGH here, A PIECE OF SPINE there...

               LEDUC inches his way down the last few feet of the stairway, 
               using the rusty pipe for a handhold. He walks up with his 
               flashlight and aims it at the BEAST'S HEAD, which finishes 
               turning back into Claude's head.

               LeDuc glances at Andy. He takes a small envelope from his 
               pocket and shakes out a single SILVER BULLET. He loads it 
               into his gun and FIRES straight into Claude's lifeless head.

                                     LEDUC
                              (to Andy)
                         I always wanted to do that. I saw it 
                         in a movie.

                                     ANDY
                         What about me?

                                     LEDUC
                         My men think you died and floated 
                         away in the Seine. If I wanted to, I 
                         could let them believe that.
                              (a long pause)
                         But that would be illegal...

               Andy looks at him carefully, trying to read him. LeDuc's 
               face is impassive.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               INT. COURTROOM, NIGHT

               The prosecutor, who speaks English with a thick French accent, 
               has an extremely sarcastic look on his face. He wheels around 
               dramatically, and confronts Andy, who sits uneasily on the 
               stand, wiping the sweat from his brow.

                                     PROSECUTOR
                         You intend us to believe that you 
                         committed these murders because the 
                         moon was full and you were somehow 
                         magically transformed into a huge 
                         powerful beast with an insatiable 
                         appetite for human flesh, is that 
                         right?

                                     ANDY
                         You don't understand!

               The prosecutor turns away towards the jury to mock Andy.

                                     PROSECUTOR
                         Oh? So I don't understand? You think 
                         it's me who has a hard time coming 
                         to grips with reality?

               The JURORS snigger at Andy's expense. But wait, suddenly 
               they look concerned - something's wrong. The prosecutor 
               continues, his back to Andy.

                                     PROSECUTOR
                         You think I'm the one who needs my 
                         head examined? I don't understand? 
                         Well, Mr. McDermott, enlighten me.

               He wheels around to Andy and comes face to face with

               THE BEAST

               huge and ravenous. It goes for his throat.

                                     PROSECUTOR
                         Good God!!! Aaaaaaaa!!!

               The beast tears the prosecutor apart, spraying blood 
               everywhere. The jury - oddly enough - break into polite 
               applause. One less lawyer...

                                                                    CUT TO:

               INT. AIRPLANE - NIGHT

               Andy wakes up with a start - a concerned STEWARDESS is leaning 
               over him. Disturbed PASSENGERS crane their necks, peering at 
               him like he's nuts.

                                     STEWARDESS
                         You were screaming in your sleep, 
                         sir. Are you okay?

               Andy looks around, getting his bearings. He takes a deep 
               breath and shakes it off.

                                     ANDY
                         Yeah. It was just, um... something I 
                         ate.

               The stewardess nods and smiles, a little uneasily. He picks 
               up the Bloody Mary from his table and gulps some down. A 
               little bit of tomato juice dribbles down his chin. He looks 
               out the window.

               EXT. AIRPLANE

               It flies along over a blanket of clouds, past the huge, silver 
               moon. The song is Cat Stevens' "Moonshadow", sardonically 
               covered by Nirvana, with the oh so appropriate lyrics: "If I 
               ever lose my legs..."

                                       ROLL CREDITS
