Dave Kovic (Kline) runs a temporary employment agency in Georgetown, Washington, D.C., and has a side job impersonating President Bill Mitchell (Kline).
He is requested by Secret Service agent Duane Stevensen (Rhames) to make an appearance as the President at a hotel.
Dave assumes it is a matter of security, but it is really to cover up Mitchell's extramarital affair with a White House staffer (Linney).

Mitchell suffers a severe stroke during the rendezvous, leaving him in a coma.
White House Chief of Staff Bob Alexander (Langella) and Communications Director Alan Reed (Dunn) convince Dave to continue impersonating the President.
They tell him that Vice President Gary Nance (Kingsley) is mentally unbalanced.
Only Bob, Alan, the Secret Service, and the medical staff know of the switch.
First Lady Ellen Mitchell (Weaver) leads a separate life, rarely seeing the President.

The public is notified that Mitchell has had a "minor circulatory problem of the head."
With Dave established as President, Bob and Alan send Nance on an 11-nation goodwill tour of Africa and implicate him in a savings and loan fraud that Bob and Mitchell perpetrated.
Once Nance is forced to resign, Bob, a former U.S. senator, plans for Dave to nominate him as Vice President, whereupon Mitchell will have a more serious stroke and Bob will ascend to the Presidency.

Dave's enthusiasm revives Mitchell's popularity.
He visits a homeless shelter with the First Lady, who does not understand why he has taken a sudden interest.
Bob forges Mitchell's veto of a funding bill that includes the shelter, ostensibly for budget reasons.
After the First Lady confronts Dave about the veto, Dave confronts Bob, who offhandedly tells him that if he can cut $650 million from the Federal budget he can keep the shelter.
Dave has his accountant friend Murray Blum (Grodin) help him rewrite the budget so that the project may be reinstated.
Bob, seething, can't stop him.

Suspecting that he is not really her husband, Ellen tricks Dave into revealing the truth.
When Dave and Duane shows her the real Bill on life support in the White House basement, she and Dave decide to leave the White House.
However, after a night out, they realize all the good they could still do, and decide to return.

Dave forces Bob to resign, then announces a plan to find a job for every American who wants work.
Nance returns from Africa and confronts Dave about the savings and loan scandal.
Nance tells Dave he thinks the jobs initiative is a wonderful idea, but that the scandal will make it difficult to pass.
Dave talks with Ellen about how Nance is a good man; Ellen, realizing what Dave is planning, realizes she doesn't want to lose Dave.

Bob reveals Mitchell's involvement in the savings and loan scandal.
In a joint session of Congress, Dave admits to Mitchell's role in the scandal, but introduces evidence proving that Bob was the mastermind and Nance was not involved.
Bob, watching the session on TV with friends, realizes Alan has betrayed him.
During the speech, Dave fakes a stroke and makes a switch with the real Mitchell in an ambulance en route to the hospital.
Nance becomes Acting President under the terms of the 25th Amendment and is sworn in as President five months later when Mitchell dies.
Bob and other members of the administration are indicted on various charges on the day the jobs initiative passes.

Dave decides to run for city council, and Ellen comes to the office to volunteer.
As they embrace, Duane, a Kovic campaign button on his lapel, stands guard outside the office door.