Lovers Lula and Sailor are separated after he is jailed for killing a man who attacked him with a knife; the assailant was hired by Lula's mother, Marietta Fortune.
Upon Sailor's release, Lula picks him up at the prison where she hands him his snakeskin jacket.
They go to a hotel where she reserved a room, make love and go to see the speed metal band Powermad.
At the club, Sailor gets into a fight with a man who accosts Lula, and then leads the band in a rendition of Elvis Presley's "Love Me".
Later, back in the room, after making love again, Sailor and Lula finally decide to run away to California, breaking Sailor's parole.
Lula's mother arranges for private detective Johnnie Farragut – her on-off boyfriend – to find them and bring them back.
Unbeknownst to Johnnie, however, Marietta also hires gangster Marcellus Santos to track them, and kill Sailor.
Santos' minions capture and kill Farragut, sending Marietta into a guilt-fuelled psychosis.

Unaware of all of the events happening back in North Carolina, the two are on their way until – according to Lula – they witness a bad omen: the aftermath of a two-car accident, and the only survivor, a young woman, dies in front of them.
With little money left, Sailor heads for Big Tuna, Texas, where he contacts "old friend" Perdita Durango, who might be able to help them, although she secretly knows he is under contract to be killed by Lula's mother.
Inevitably, while Sailor agrees to join up with gangster Bobby Peru in a feed store robbery, Lula waits for him in the hotel room, trying to conceal that she is pregnant with Sailor's child.
While Sailor is out Bobby enters the room, and convinces Lula to implore him to make love with her, but in the end he refuses, stating he has no time.

The robbery goes spectacularly wrong when Peru unnecessarily shoots two clerks, and as they leave the feed store, Sailor realized he has been given a pistol with dummy ammunition.
Peru then admits to Sailor he's been hired to kill him, but just as he is about to do so, the sheriff's deputies open fire on him; Peru accidentally blows his own head off with his own shotgun.
Sailor is arrested and sentenced to five years in prison.

While Sailor is in jail, Lula has their child, her mother "vanishes", and upon his release Lula decides to pick him up with their son.
As they pick him up in the car, he reveals he's leaving them both, having decided while in prison that he isn't good enough for them.
While he is walking a short distance away, he encounters a gang of mostly Asian men who surround him.
He thinks his bravado will carry him through, but they quickly knock him out.
While he is unconscious, he sees a revelation in the form of Glinda the Good Witch, who tells him, "Don't turn away from love, Sailor".
When he awakens, he apologizes to the men and tells them he realizes the error of his ways, then runs after Lula.
As there is a traffic jam on the road, he begins to run over the roofs and hoods of the cars to get back to Lula and their child in the car.
Sailor sings "Love Me Tender" to Lula — having earlier said that he would only sing that song to his wife — as the credits roll.