Miles Raymond is an unsuccessful writer, a wine-aficionado, and a divorced, depressed, and borderline alcoholic middle-aged English teacher living in San Diego, who takes his soon-to-be-married actor friend and college roommate, Jack Cole, on a road trip through Santa Ynez Valley wine country.
Years ago Jack starred in a popular TV series but is doing voice-overs now.
Miles wants to relax and live well.
However, Jack wants one last sexual fling.

In the wine country, the men encounter Maya, a waitress at Miles' favorite restaurant, The Hitching Post, and her friend, Stephanie, an employee at a local winery.
They arrange a double date.
During the date, Miles gets drunk and telephones Vicki, his ex-wife, after learning from Jack earlier that day that she is now remarried.
They return to Stephanie's home where Jack has sex with Stephanie while Miles and Maya connect.
As the week progresses, Jack's affair with Stephanie continues to the point where he believes he's falling in love with her and also bonds with her daughter, and makes the suggestion to Miles that they move there for him to be closer to Stephanie.
After spending the day together, Miles and Maya return to her apartment and have sex.
The next day Miles lets it slip that Jack is to be married.
Disgusted with the dishonesty, Maya dumps Miles and tells Stephanie, who breaks Jack's nose using her motorcycle helmet.

Upon finding out his manuscript has been rejected again, Miles tries to drink from the spit bucket in a wine tasting room.
That same night, Jack hooks up with another waitress named Cammi.
Jack gets into deeper trouble when Cammi's husband comes home unexpectedly and Jack has to flee without his clothes and wallet (which contains the irreplaceable wedding rings).
Miles sneaks into Cammi's house and barely escapes with Jack's wallet.
To explain the broken nose to his fiancée, Jack runs Miles' Saab 900 convertible into a ditch to make it look like they had been in an accident.

At the wedding, Miles runs into his ex-wife Vicki and meets her new husband.
After learning that she is also pregnant, Miles faces the fact that Vicki will never return to him.
Alone, he drinks his prized wine, a 1961 Château Cheval Blanc, from a disposable coffee cup at a fast-food restaurant and falls into an even deeper depression.
Later, he receives a message from Maya, who says she enjoyed his manuscript and invites him to visit.
The last scene in the movie shows Miles back in Santa Ynez, knocking on Maya's door.