A family is on a yacht cruise near Isla Sorna.
The daughter (Camilla Belle) wanders on the beach and encounters a Compsognathus, more Compsognathus arrive and attack her, much to the horror of her mother but her father and the sailors rescue her.

Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) publicized the incident at Jurassic Park, but disbelief destroyed his academic reputation.
Four years later, John Hammond (Richard Attenborough), having lost control of InGen to his unscrupulous nephew Peter Ludlow (Arliss Howard), summons Ian to his home and tells him about Isla Sorna.
Isla Sorna is the island where the dinosaurs were engineered and nurtured for a few months, before being moved to the Jurassic Park's main location, Isla Nublar.
He explains that after the park was shut down, a hurricane destroyed the containment facilities on Isla Sorna, and the dinosaurs have been living free in the wild ever since.
Hammond asks Malcolm to join a team that will travel to Isla Sorna to document the dinosaurs in their natural habitat as a way of rallying public support to prevent Ludlow from exploiting the site for InGen and encourage him to leave it as a nature preserve.
Ian initially declines, but after learning that his girlfriend - paleontologist Sarah Harding (Julianne Moore) - is part of the team and is already on the island, agrees to go.

Ian meets the other two members of the team: equipment specialist and engineer Eddie Carr (Richard Schiff), and video documentarian Nick Van Owen (Vince Vaughn).
Shortly after arriving on the island, they find Sarah and discover that Ian's daughter Kelly has stowed away on the trailer that the group is using as a mobile base.
Ian tries to get Kelly home, but they're interrupted by the arrival of an InGen team of mercenaries, hunters, and paleontologists led by Ludlow, which they spot chasing and capturing several dinosaur species such as Parasaurolophus, Pachycephalosaurus, Gallimimus, and Triceratops, for another park Ludlow plans to build in San Diego.
Tracker Roland Tembo (Pete Postlethwaite) wishes to hunt and kill a male Tyrannosaurus by luring it to the cries of its injured offspring.
That night, Nick and Sarah sneak into the InGen camp to release the dinosaurs, which causes a huge commotion as one of the Triceratops destroys the camp and the dinosaurs escape.

During the commotion, Nick frees the infant Tyrannosaur and takes it to the trailer so Sarah can set its broken leg.
Ian takes Kelly to the "high hide", a lift Eddie built to keep them safe above the trees.
Ian, after trying and failing to contact the trailer by phone, returns on foot.
Shortly after he arrives, two adult Tyrannosaurs - parents of the infant - find the trailer.
The team gives the infant back, but the two adults begin pushing the trailer over the edge of a nearby cliff with the team inside.
Eddie leaves Kelly in the "high hide" and returns to the trailer in an SUV.
With the adults temporarily gone, Eddie is able to tie a rope to a tree trunk and send it down to Ian, Sarah, and Nick to grab onto.
He then ties a cable to the trailer and tries to use the SUV to pull it back over the edge.
He partially succeeds, but is attacked and devoured when the Tyrannosaurus return.
The trailer and SUV fall off the cliff, but Ian, Sarah, and Nick are rescued by the InGen team.
With both groups' communications equipment destroyed in the attacks, they team up to reach the old InGen compound's radio station.
During the trip, Dieter Stark (Peter Stormare), Rolands second-in-command is killed by a pack of Compsognathus.

The next night, the pair of T.Rexes come across the group's camp, having followed the scent of the infant's blood on Sarah's jacket.
One of the hunters notices them and screams, causing everyone to awaken and flee, except Ian, who hides.
The female T.Rex chases the group, while Roland stays behind and manages to tranquilize the male.
The hunters disband into the thick trees, while Sarah, Kelly, and Nick hide in a crevice behind a waterfall.
The hunters exit the thick trees into a field of tall grass, and are devoured by a large pack of Velociraptors.
Ian reunites with Nick, Sarah, and Kelly, and they continue on toward the compound.
Nick breaks off to find the communications room where he can call for rescue.
After barely escaping a trio of Velociraptors, Ian, Sarah, and Kelly reunite with Nick and fly away in a rescue helicopter.
From the air, they spot the unconscious male T.Rex being prepared for transport.

A freighter carries the T.Rex back to the mainland, but upon reaching San Diego, crashes into the dock.
Ludlow and several guards investigate the boat and find that the crew have all been devoured.
A guard opens the cargo hold, accidentally releasing the T.Rex, which escapes into the city and goes on a rampage.
During its rampage, the dinosaur enters a suburban backyard, drains the pool for water and disturbs the family dog tied to its kennel in the yard.
The dog barks but the Tyrannosaurus devours it and departs, inexplicably leaving the parents and their son unharmed.
Realizing the T.Rex is likely searching for its infant, Ian and Sarah learn from Ludlow that the infant was captured and is in a secure InGen building somewhere in the city.
They rush to retrieve the infant, and use it to lure the adult, who is destroying the city and eating several of its inhabitants, back to the boat.
The pair leave the infant in the boat's cargo hold, prompting Ludlow to go and retrieve it.
The adult arrives, trapping him in the cargo hold and injuring him when he tries to escape.
With the adult's encouraging, the infant pins him to the floor and kills him.
Sarah finds a tranquilizer gun and sedates the adult, while Ian seals the cargo hold doors.

Ian, Sarah, and Kelly watch television reports of the cargo ship on its way back to Isla Sorna, surrounded by a convoy of naval vessels.
John Hammond explains in an interview that the American and Costa Rican governments have agreed to declare the island a nature preserve.
He ends the interview by saying "life will find a way", paraphrasing something Malcolm told him in the first film.