Bernie LaPlante is a pickpocket and petty criminal who anonymously rescues survivors of a plane crash, losing a shoe in the process.
He later meets a homeless Vietnam veteran, John Bubber, and gives him his remaining shoe.
The media cries out for the hero to come forward, and when Bernie can't due to incarceration, John uses the single shoe to take credit for the act.
Bernie tries to tell people that John is a fake, but the media has sensationalized the heroic Bubber, and everyone wants to believe in him rather than Bernie.

TV reporter Gale Gayley, one of the crash survivors, considers herself to be in John's debt and soon grooms his public image.
She finds herself falling in love with him even though she has questions about his authenticity, and he finds himself in an ethical dilemma since his lies are inspirational to countless people.
Meanwhile, Bernie continues to aggravate ex-wife Evelyn and fails to bond with his son, who is now enamored with the "hero" John Bubber.
Bernie begins to feel that if his son is going to idolize anyone, perhaps John is the better choice.

A detective tells Gale her credit cards were recovered (although she originally said they burned in the crash).
They were accidentally stolen by Bernie, drawing accusations that he might be attempting to blackmail John.
Gale and her cameraman, Chucky, break into Bernie's apartment with the help of the landlord, Winston.
While searching for evidence to incarcerate Bernie once again, Gale finds a stolen Silver Mic Award that she won in New York City the night before the crash.

Bernie arrives and gets into an argument with Gale.
They are interrupted by Winston, who says Bubber is about to jump from a high-rise skyscraper.
Gale rushes there and brings Bernie along, threatening to have Bernie prosecuted if Bubber leaps to his death.
In addition, she demands Bernie apologize for the attempted blackmail.

Bernie goes out on the ledge, hatching a scheme to milk the media attention for all it's worth.
Ultimately he and Bubber agree that the world needs a hero.
Bernie pretends that he is going to commit suicide, and John pulls him up to safety, a hero once more.

But when she sees Bernie's face with dirt on it, as on the night of the crash, Gale realizes it was Bernie who saved her.
She asks him directly but Bernie insists that John was the hero.
As she leaves, however, she thanks him for saving her life and Bernie replies, "You're welcome."

Gale tells him to tell his son the truth.
Bubber agrees to continue playing the part of public hero.
Bernie decides to tell him the true story of the crash while at the zoo.
After he does so, a lady cries out that her daughter has fallen into the lion's cage.
Bernie's son looks at him with expectant eyes, to which he sighs, slips off his shoes, and heads off to see what he can do.