Recent graduates of Georgetown University Alec (Judd Nelson), girlfriend Leslie (Ally Sheedy), Kevin (Andrew McCarthy), Jules (Demi Moore), and Kirby (Emilio Estevez) are waiting to hear about the conditions of their friends Wendy (Mare Winningham), a sweet-natured girl devoted to helping others, and Billy (Rob Lowe), a former frat boy and now reluctant husband and father, who were in a car accident together.
While at the hospital, Kirby sees a medical student named Dale (Andie MacDowell), with whom he has been infatuated since college.

Later the group gathers at their favorite college hangout, St. Elmo’s Bar.
It is revealed that Billy has been recently fired from the job Alec helped him secure and his marriage is getting increasingly unstable.
Later, at their studio apartment, Alec tells Leslie he is planning to switch from a Democrat to a Republican in order to secure a better job.
He also pressures her to marry him but Leslie is convinced that they are not ready.
Meanwhile, Kirby is telling Kevin of his love for Dale when Billy shows up, asking to spend the night as he cannot deal with his wife.

Kevin begins to worry about his romantic life when Jules accuses him of being gay and being in love with Alec.
When he visits Alec and Leslie for dinner, Alec confesses to Kevin that while buying lingerie for Leslie, he has sex with the lingerie saleswoman.
Leslie is completely unaware and happily tries on the red slip Alec bought her.

Meanwhile Billy visits Wendy at the welfare office where she works, and joins her and her family for dinner.
The two get drunk together and Wendy reveals that she is a virgin.
She and Billy kiss but Wendy insists the two should just remain friends, especially since she realizes Billy is taking advantage of her crush on him.

During Halloween at St. Elmo’s Bar, Jules reveals to a disapproving Leslie that she is having an affair with her married boss.
Meanwhile, Billy sees his wife with another man in the crowd and attacks him.
Billy is thrown out of the bar but he and his wife make up.
The girls confront Jules about the affair and her increasingly reckless spending but she insists that she has everything under control.

Kirby takes a job working for Mr. Kim, a wealthy Korean businessman, and invites Dale to a party he is secretly holding at Mr. Kim’s house.
Wendy arrives with Howie, a boy her parents set her up with.
At the party, Alec announces to the gathering that he and Leslie are engaged, upsetting Leslie.
She confronts him about her suspicions of his infidelity and the two break up.
Alec is also angry with Kevin, whom he mistakenly believes confessed everything to Leslie.
After the party, Jules gives Billy a ride home and just when she is about to confide in him, Billy makes a pass at her.
Furious, Jules throws him out of her car.

Meanwhile, still pursuing Dale, Kirby drives to the ski lodge where she is staying but is embarrassed to find out that she already has a boyfriend.
He tries to leave but his car becomes stuck in the snow and Dale and her boyfriend coax him to come inside.
The next morning, as Kirby prepares to leave Dale’s cottage, Dale tells him she is flattered by his affections.
In a surprising moment, he kisses her, and she does not resist.

Leslie goes to Kevin’s place to stay the night after the break up and discovers a box of photographs of her.
Kevin confesses his love for her, and the two sleep together but the next morning, Alec comes by to apologize to Kevin for attacking him the night before.
Alec is shocked to find Leslie there and the two argue over his infidelity.
Eventually, Alec storms off.

Wendy meets her father at a café and announces she wants to be independent from her family and move into her own place.
Meanwhile it is revealed that Jules has been fired from her job and has fallen behind her credit card payments and as a result, all of her possessions have been repossessed.
Jules has locked herself in her apartment and the friends come together to try and coax her out.
Kirby fetches Billy, who has landed a job at a gas station courtesy of Kevin, to calm Jules down.
Billy consoles and comforts her, comparing her behavior to St. Elmo's fire, that her problems are merely an illusion.
Jules agrees to come back out, to the relief of her friends.

Wendy moves into her own place, where Billy comes to visit and he informs her that he is getting a divorce and is moving to New York City to pursue a career as a saxophonist.
The two make love as a going away present and at the bus station, the group gathers once more to say goodbye to Billy.
Billy urges Alec to make up with Leslie but Leslie declares that she does not want to date anyone for a while.
Alec and Kevin make up and the group decides to get brunch.
However, they decide not to go to St. Elmo's bar and instead choose Houlihan's because there are "not so many kids" there, symbolizing they are moving on from college life and are now ready to enter the adult world.