An opening narration explains that in the beginning, humans were unaware that intelligent beings were watching them, and making plans to eradicate them.
Ray Ferrier (Tom Cruise) is a container crane operator at a New Jersey port and is estranged from his children.
He is visited by his ex-wife, Mary Ann (Miranda Otto), who drops off the children, 10-year old Rachel (Dakota Fanning) and teenager Robbie (Justin Chatwin), as she is going to visit her parents in Boston.
Meanwhile T.V.
reports tell of bizarre lightning storms which have knocked out power in parts of Europe.
Robbie takes Ray's car out without his permission, so Ray starts searching for him.
Outside, Ray notices a strange wall cloud, which starts to send out powerful lightning strikes, disabling all electronic devices in the area, including cars, forcing Robbie to come back.
Ray heads down the street to investigate.
He stops at a garage and tells Manny, the local mechanic, to replace the solenoid on a dead car.

Ray reaches the place where multiple lightning bolts struck the ground and witnesses the ground heaving up as a massive machine with three long legs climbs out.
The Tripod gives off a loud blaring sound before opening fire with heat-rays, vaporizing bystanders and destroying everything in its path.
Ray manages to barely escape; he packs up his kids and leaves in the vehicle Manny repaired as the Tripod destroys the town.
He drives to Mary Ann's house in suburban New Jersey to take refuge that night.
With phone lines down and uncertain about the danger Ray decides that they should stay in the basement from where they hear loud explosions occur through the night.
The next morning he discovers a crashed Boeing 747 in the street outside the house.
He meets a small news team surveying the wreckage and scavenging the flight's meals.
The female member of the team says that she was attached to a National Guard unit in the New Jersey Pine Barrens.
She informs Ray that there are Tripods on the rampage all over the world saying that news feed was lost from New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago, Washington D.C, London and numerous other cities when the attacks began.
She also shows him footage of Tripods attacking an undisclosed city, with the unknown pilots entering the machines through the lightning strikes.
She speculates that the machines were in place for thousands of years meaning the invasion had been planned for a long time.

Ray decides to take the kids to Boston to be with their mother.
Robbie, trying to join the fight against the aliens, tries to leave with the U.S. military, but Ray and Rachel stop him.
They are forced to leave their car after a mob surrounds them and takes the vehicle by force.
They later survive a Tripod attack which causes the sinking of a Hudson River ferry.
The family then comes across the Marine Corps and Air Force battling the Tripods.
The military sets up a line of defense on a hill top with vehicles consisting of M1 Abrams tanks, LAV-25 armored vehicles, and HUMVEE trucks loaded with heavy soldier infantry along with mounted Browning M2 machine guns, along with air support from Apache helicopters and F/A-18 Super Hornet fighter jets.
Meanwhile Ray is forced to choose between being separated from Rachel and preventing Robbie from joining the fight, Ray lets him go with the soldiers.
The tripods advance and the military moves in their last stand to delay them.
They fight valiantly, but the Tripods destroy all military resistance, presumably also killing Robbie.
The Tripods are shown to be protected by an energy shield that makes them invulnerable.
While escaping, Ray and Rachel are offered shelter by Harlan Ogilvy (Tim Robbins), who vows revenge on the aliens after his family was killed by them.

While hiding in Harlan's basement, they witness the Tripods spreading a strange red weed substance everywhere.
They all hide from a snake-like probe and a group of four aliens who explore the basement.
The next morning, Ogilvy suffers a mental breakdown while witnessing a Tripod harvesting blood and tissue from a human.
Concerned that Ogilvy's yelling and ranting will attract the Tripods, Ray reluctantly kills Ogilvy to silence him.
The basement hideout is exposed when a second probe catches them sleeping.
Ray cripples the probe using an axe, but a panicked Rachel runs outside and is caught by the Tripod.
As he chases after the Tripod and Rachel, Ray finds a grenade bandolier with several hand grenades in a destroyed Humvee and throws one of them at the Tripod to attract its attention.
He is captured as he planned and placed in the same basket with Rachel, a disarmed soldier, and several other prisoners.
Ray discovers Rachel is now in shock after she witnessed captives being sucked up one at a time into the ship to be harvested.
As Ray finally calms her down, the aliens select Ray to pull him inside for harvesting, but the other prisoners manage to pull him back.
The bandolier he was wearing was left inside the Tripod and Ray was able to pull all of the pins, causing a massive internal explosion, destroying the Tripod and freeing the captives.

Ray and Rachel arrive in a devastated Boston, where the red weeds are dying and the Tripods have been behaving erratically and crashing; infected by Earth pathogens, both the red weeds and the aliens are dying out.
Ray notices that the force fields are down on a Tripod, prompting nearby soldiers to attack and destroy it.
As a crowd approaches the downed machine, a hatch opens, revealing an alien that lets out a final growl before it dies.
Ray and Rachel reach Mary Ann's parents' house, where they are reunited with Mary Ann and find to their surprise, Robbie, who has somehow survived the hilltop massacre.
The closing narration reveals that with the cost of one billion lives "Man had earned his immunity, his right to survive".