The unnamed Driver (Ryan Gosling), who lives in an Echo Park, Los Angeles apartment, works as a mechanic and a part-time movie stuntman.
Managed in both jobs by auto shop owner Shannon (Bryan Cranston), the duo also provide a getaway driver service.
With Shannon organizing jobs, the Driver gives criminals a strict five-minute window to commit crimes and reach his vehicle (lest they be left behind).

Meeting his new neighbor, Irene (Carey Mulligan), the Driver soon becomes close to her and befriends her young son, Benicio (Kaden Leos).
This is undone, however, when Irene's husband, Standard Gabriel (Oscar Isaac), is released from prison.
Standard, while initially hostile toward the Driver, soon warms to him.
Meanwhile, Shannon persuades Jewish mobsters Bernie Rose (Albert Brooks) and Nino (Ron Perlman) to purchase a stock car chassis and to build it for the Driver to race.

Standard, owing protection money from his time in prison, is beat up by Albanian gangster Cook (James Biberi).
Threatening both Standard and his family, Cook demands he rob a pawnshop for $40,000 to pay off the debt.
The Driver, concerned for the safety of Irene and Benicio, steals a Ford Mustang and offers to act as the getaway driver for the pawnshop job.

While waiting for Standard and Blanche (Christina Hendricks) to complete the heist, the Driver sees a Chrysler pull into the lot.
As Blanche returns with a large bag, Standard is shot and killed by the pawnshop owner.
The Driver flees with Blanche and the money, but they are pursued by the Chrysler, which tries to force them off the road; eluding the other vehicle, the Driver hides with Blanche in a motel.
Learning the money actually totals a million dollars, the Driver interrogates Blanche, who admits she and Cook planned to double-cross him and Standard, and that the Chrysler belongs to Cook.
Minutes later, two of Cook's men attack them in the motel room, killing Blanche and injuring the Driver before he manages to kill them both.

The Driver confronts Cook in his strip club, breaking his fingers with a hammer and threatening to kill him; Cook reveals that Nino was behind the heist.
The Driver offers to return Nino's money, but Nino declines and instead sends a hitman (Jeff Wolfe) to the Driver's apartment building.
Entering the apartment elevator with Irene, the Driver encounters the hitman in the elevator.
Spotting the hitman's pistol, the Driver kisses Irene before violently beating the hitman, killing him while Irene watches in horror.

In his pizzeria, Nino explains to Bernie and Cook that the heist money belonged to a crime family and, since anyone tied to the robbery could lead the Mafia to them, they need to kill everyone involved.
Nino further explains that it was his plan all along to steal the money from the crime family, and it was his idea to set up the $40,000 dummy robbery.
Bernie then proceeds to murder Cook, before killing Shannon when he refuses to divulge the whereabouts of the Driver.

The Driver, disguising himself with a mask, follows Nino to the Pacific Coast Highway and T-bones Nino's car onto a beach.
With Nino injured and weakened, the Driver drowns him in the Pacific Ocean.
The Driver, using Nino's phone, arranges to meet Bernie at a Chinese restaurant.
The Driver makes a final phone call to Irene to tell her he is leaving, and says that meeting her and Benicio was the best thing that happened to him.

At the restaurant, Bernie promises Irene's and Benicio's safety in exchange for the money, but he warns that he cannot guarantee the safety of the Driver himself.
Outside the restaurant, the Driver gives Bernie the money, only for Bernie to stab him in the stomach.
The Driver retaliates by fatally stabbing Bernie in the neck; he then departs in his car, leaving the money with Bernie's corpse.
That evening, Irene knocks on the Driver's apartment door to no response; the Driver is then shown driving away into the night.