In 1973, Sam "Ace" Rothstein (De Niro), a sports handicapper and Mafia associate, is sent to Las Vegas to run the Teamsters-funded Tangiers Casino on behalf of several Midwest Mob families.
Taking advantage of lax gaming laws allowing him to work at the casino while his gaming license is still pending, Sam becomes the Tangiers' de facto boss and doubles the casino's profits, which are skimmed by the Mob before the records are reported to income tax agencies.
Impressed with Sam's work, the bosses send Sam's friend, enforcer and caporegime Nicholas "Nicky" Santoro (Pesci) along with his brother Dominick (Suriano), his best friend Frank Marino (Vincent) and their crew to protect Sam and the whole business.
Nicky, however, begins to become more of a liability than an asset; his violent temper quickly gets him banned by the gaming board from every casino, and his name is placed in the Black Book.
Nicky then gathers his own crew and begins running unsanctioned shakedowns and burglaries.

Sam, meanwhile, meets and falls in love with a hustler, Ginger McKenna (Stone).
Despite Ginger's reluctance, they soon conceive a daughter, Amy, and marry.
Their relationship begins to deteriorate when Sam and Nicky catch Ginger giving money to her former boyfriend, her pimp from her days as a prostitute, Lester Diamond (Woods), now a small-time con man.
Sam also makes an enemy in Clark County Commissioner Pat Webb (Jones) by firing Webb's brother-in-law Donald Ward (Bloom) for incompetence, and refusing to reinstate him.
Webb retaliates by pulling Sam's casino license application from the backlog and forcing Sam to have a license hearing, while secretly arranging for the gaming board and State Senator Harrison Roberts (Smothers) to reject the license.
Sam responds by appearing on television and openly accusing the city government of corruption.
The bosses, unappreciative of Sam's publicity, ask him to return home, but he stubbornly blames Nicky's reckless lawbreaking for his own problems, which leads to a heated argument with Nicky in the desert.

The bosses appoint Kansas City underboss Artie Piscano (Vella) to oversee the skim and reduce the amount local mobsters are keeping for themselves, but he keeps incriminating ledgers and is caught on an FBI bug discussing the skim.
Sam loses patience with Ginger after she and Lester are in Los Angeles with plans to run away to Europe with his daughter Amy.
Sam talks Ginger into bringing Amy back, but he accidentally overhears her talking on the telephone with someone about having him killed, and he evicts her from the house.
She returns, on Sam's condition that she carry a beeper on her for Sam to contact her whenever he must.
Ginger turns to Nicky for help in getting her share of her and Sam's money from the bank, and they begin an affair, something which is against mob rules and could get Sam, Nicky and Ginger killed.
Sam reaches his limit with Ginger when she ties Amy to her bed to have a night with Nicky.
Sam confronts Ginger in the restaurant, learns of her affair with Nicky and disowns her.
She turns to Nicky, but Nicky refuses to have Sam killed and blames Ginger for her rash actions, claiming that Sam will likely not give her any money now.
Ginger flies into a rage and attacks Nicky, but he throws her out.
The next morning, Ginger goes to Sam's house, creates a disturbance, and uses the distraction to take the key to their bank deposit box.
All of these events are occurring under FBI surveillance, having been alerted by Piscano's discussions heard by the bug.
Ginger takes the cash from the safe deposit, and the FBI decides it's time to arrest her, hoping to use her as a witness against the mob's activity.

With Ginger's arrest and the FBI's discovery of Piscano's records, which are then matched with the skimming operation, the casino empire crumbles and the bosses are arrested.
During a meeting, they decide to eliminate anyone involved in order to keep them from testifying, including the head of the teamsters, the money courier, and several casino executives.
Ginger, who ultimately told the FBI nothing, dies nearly penniless in Los Angeles of a drug overdose, and Sam is almost killed in a botched car bombing, which he suspects Nicky planted.
Before Sam can confront him, however, Nicky and Dominick are beaten severely and buried alive (in an infamously gory scene) in a cornfield by their own crew.
Sam narrates that the bosses had finally had enough of Nicky, and had ordered Nicky's crew to get rid of him in exchange for clemency for covering up Nicky's affair with Ginger.

With the Mob now out of power, the old casinos are purchased by big corporations and demolished to make way for gaudier gambling attractions financed by junk bonds.
Sam laments that this new "family friendly" Las Vegas lacks the same kind of catering to the players as the older and, to his perception, classier Vegas he saw when he ran the Tangiers.
In the final scene, an older Sam is shown living in San Diego, once again as a sports handicapper for the Mob, or in his words, "...right back where I started."
Sam closes the film with the words, "And that's that."