Faced with a demotion at work due to a drinking problem, Osbourne Cox (John Malkovich) quits his job as a CIA analyst and resolves to write a memoir about his life and career.
When his pediatrician wife Katie (Tilda Swinton) finds out, she sees it as a justifiable opportunity to file for divorce and continue her adulterous affair unimpeded.
Taking her lawyer's advice, she copies financial records and several other files from her husband's computer onto a CD.

When the CD gets left on the locker room floor of Hardbodies, a local gym, by a careless law firm employee, it falls into the hands of personal trainer Chad Feldheimer (Brad Pitt) and his co-worker Linda Litzke (Frances McDormand), who mistakenly believe the numerical data in the Coxes' bank records to be highly sensitive government information.
After getting the data traced back to Cox, who thinks his memoirs have been stolen, Feldheimer and Litzke plan to give the disc back to him for a reward, with Litzke planning to use the money to pay for cosmetic surgery.
But when a phone call and subsequent meeting with Cox goes horribly wrong, Feldheimer and Litzke turn over the disc to the Russian embassy, offering more information in return for monetary compensation.
With no other data to give them, Litzke persuades Feldheimer to sneak into the Cox home to get more files from their computer.

Meanwhile, Cox's increasingly erratic behavior - aggravated in part by his encounters with Feldheimer and Litzke - prompt Katie to move ahead with the divorce proceedings.
She changes the locks on their house, forcing Cox to move onto the sailboat they have docked on the Chesapeake Bay.
With her husband out of the picture, Katie invites her lover, Harry Pfarrer (George Clooney) to move in.
A womanizing, multi-adulterous Treasury Department employee and U.S.
Marshal, Pfarrer is coincidentally also secretly seeing Litzke.
Feldheimer, who was sent by Litzke to find more files on Cox, is discovered hiding in a wardrobe in the Cox home by Pfarrer who panics and fatally shoots him in the head.

Two days later at the CIA headquarters, Palmer (David Rasche), Cox's former superior, and his director (J. K. Simmons) learn that information from Cox has been given to the Russian Embassy.
They are perplexed and decide to maintain observation until the situation "makes sense".
Pfarrer, burdened by keeping the day prior's events secret, gets into an argument with Katie and decides to leave the house.
On his way out, he spots a man who has been trailing him for the past several days.
After tackling him to the ground, Pfarrer finds out that the man is a private detective hired by his wife Sandy (Elizabeth Marvel) to gather evidence for impending divorce proceedings.
Sandy is shown to be having an extramarital liaison of her own.
Pfarrer is devastated and goes to see an agitated Litzke, who confides in Pfarrer that her friend Feldheimer is missing; he agrees to try to help find him.

The next morning, Pfarrer and Litzke meet in a park, and she provides him with more information about Feldheimer's disappearance.
When Litzke mentions the name "Osbourne Cox", Pfarrer figures out that Feldheimer's the man he shot.
He panics, realizes that there are strange men in the park and flees, assuming Litzke is a spy.
Litzke then turns to Ted Treffon (Richard Jenkins), the kindhearted manager of Hardbodies, who has unrequited feelings for her and been critical of Litzke and Feldheimer's scheming thus far.
Believing the Russians have kidnapped Feldheimer, he agrees to go to the Cox home to search Cox's computer.
Unemployed and having spent the past several days living on a small boat, Cox becomes unhinged when he finds out that his wife has emptied his bank accounts, and, no longer having keys, decides to break into the house to get some of his personal belongings.
Finding Treffon in the basement, Cox initially takes him to be Katie's lover.
He soon realizes Ted's affiliation with Litzke and what he refers to as the "league of morons" he feels he has been struggling against his whole life, and fires a gunshot at him.
Treffon manages to get out of the house, only to be fatally attacked by a hammer-wielding Cox.

At CIA headquarters a few days later, Palmer and his director try to understand what exactly happened.
It is revealed that while trying to board a flight to Venezuela, Pfarrer was detained because his name was on a hot list and that the CIA are holding Litzke who is promising to keep quiet about everything if they will pay for her cosmetic surgery.
A CIA agent shot Cox during his assault on Treffon and the bullet has put Cox in a coma.
The director instructs Palmer to let Pfarrer fly to Venezuela and pay for Litzke's surgery.
The director and Palmer conclude that they did not really learn anything.