Men in Black (M.I.B.)
is a secret non-government agency that polices extraterrestrial alien refugees that are residing on Earth and are disguised as humans, created in 1961 after the first contact.
The agency operates from an underground base at a Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority ventilation station in Battery Park.
MIB members use neuralyzers on witnesses' memories of alien sightings, therefore the secrecy of the presence of aliens and the MIB itself is extremely secretive.
MIB is monitoring about 1500 aliens around the world, most of them in the vicinity of New York City.

One night, Agent K (Tommy Lee Jones) and his partner, D (Richard Hamilton) intercept a truck containing illegal immigrants, and allow everyone to cross into America except for an extraterrestrial, who is disguised as a human because he is an intergalactical fugitive.
When a suspicious United States Border Patrol agent, who saw K and D pose as fellow Border Patrol agents, sees the alien without its disguise, the alien attacks him, forcing K to destroy it and use the neuralyzer on the agent and his colleagues, claiming that the alien remains splattered all over them are from when the agent shot an underground gas main with his gun.
D, feeling too old, asks K to use the neuralyzer on him.

Meanwhile, James Darrell Edwards III (Will Smith) is a New York police officer pursuing a man on foot while his out-of-shape colleagues can't catch up.
While chasing the incredibly fast and agile fugitive, he corners him and the man throws an odd looking gun away, which disintegrates, and escapes.
When Edwards corners the man again at the top of the (Guggenheim Museum), he sees the man blink with a set of secondary eyelids before jumping over the roof and killing himself.
K arrives at the precinct station, (where no one believes Edwards's incredible story), questions Edwards about the incident, then takes him to a pawnshop run by a man named Jack Jeebs (Tony Shalhoub), an MIB informant who Edwards knew for dealing stolen goods, to identify the strange weapon the criminal drew on him.

While questioning Jeebs, K reveals Jeebs is an alien by blowing his head off with a weapon, which grows back immediately.
After Edwards finds a weapon identical to the one he saw among Jeebs' hidden stash of alien technology, K realizes that the gun was meant to be used in an assassination, but Jeebs is unable to provide any further information.
K uses the neuralyzer on Edwards, takes him to dinner, and leaves him an MIB business card.
Later, Edwards goes to the MIB's secret headquarters and competes with several others to qualify to join the agency.
During one part of the test, a written exam, the candidates struggle to complete the test due to the oddly shaped chairs, until Edwards pulls a table over for him to use.
at another part involving a shooting gallery, Edwards refuses to shoot several aliens because he thinks that they are doing normal everyday things, but shoots a little girl for carrying suspicious quantum physics textbooks.
After the tests, K takes him aside (while Zed uses the neuralyzer on the others for failing the tests) and offers him the position.
Edwards accepts and his identity is erased, becoming Agent J, and explains the nature of MIB and tells him that he will have to distance himself from any human contact to maintain secrecy, and that he will get his own neuralyzer when he learns.

Suspicious of why extraterrestrials are suddenly leaving the planet, the M.I.B.
investigate a farmer named Edgar (Vincent D'Onofrio), who has been acting strangely after an alien craft crashed on his farm and destroying his truck.
Edgar has been killed and his skin used as a disguise by a "Bug", a member of a giant cockroach-like species that are at war with several other alien races, including the Arquillians and the humans.
An Arquillian prince hiding in Brooklyn who is disguised as a human jewelry store owner is attacked by the "bug" and appears to die along with his friend.
The body is taken to the city morgue and investigated by Dr. Laurel Weaver (Linda Fiorentino).
During the investigation K and J arrive at the morgue posing as Doctors.
The head of the dead Arquillian "opens" while being examined by Dr Weaver and J reavealing the actual Arquillian prince.
While dying the Arquillian tells J that "the galaxy is on Orion's belt".

M.I.B.
informant Frank the Pug (Tim Blaney), a Remoonian disguised as a small lapdog, explains that the missing galaxy is a massive source of energy housed in a small jewel.
The Bug figures out the galaxy is hanging on the collar of Rosenberg's cat Orion, which refuses to leave the prince's body at the morgue.
Orion has been taken care of by Dr. Laurel Weaver (Linda Fiorentino).
J arrives at the morgue just as the Bug kidnaps Weaver and grabs the galaxy.
The Arquillians deliver an ultimatum to M.I.B.
to secure the galaxy within an hour, or they will destroy Earth.

The Bug arrives at the site of two disguised flying saucers, the observation towers of the New York State Pavilion at Flushing Meadows.
K and J are close behind and destroy one saucer, causing it to crash through the Unisphere.
The Bug sheds Edgar's skin and swallows J's and K's guns.
K tells J to stop the Bug from getting onto the other ship, then taunts the Bug until K too is swallowed.
J infuriates the Bug by crushing cockroaches and taunting him.

The Bug is blown open from the inside by K, who located his weapon in the Bug's stomach.
As J and K sit on the ground covered in slime, the mortally wounded insect tries to attack again, but is killed by Weaver using J's weapon.
The three return to M.I.B.
headquarters and K tells J that he has not been training him as a partner, but rather as a replacement, as he is tired of a life as an agent.
J reluctantly uses the neuralyzer on K, using a story that he has been suffering in a coma for 35 years to allow him to return to his civilian life and the young woman he left behind.
A few days later, it is revealed that Weaver also joined M.I.B.
and is now J's new partner, Agent L.

As a coda, the camera rapidly pulls back, showing that Earth and the Milky Way galaxy are also inside an alien marble being used in a cosmic game, revealing that, like the galaxy in a necklace, we are tiny.