Sheryl Hoover (Toni Collette) is an overworked mother of two children who lives in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Her gay brother Frank (Steve Carell) is a scholar of French author Marcel Proust, temporarily living at home with the family after a suicide attempt.
Her husband Richard (Greg Kinnear) is striving to build a career as a motivational speaker and life coach.
Dwayne (Paul Dano), Sheryl's son from a previous marriage, is an unhappy seventeen-year-old who has taken a vow of silence until he can accomplish his dream of getting into the US Air Force Academy in order to become a test pilot.
Richard's foul-mouthed father, Edwin (Alan Arkin), a World War II veteran recently evicted from a retirement home for using heroin, lives with the family.
He is close with his seven-year-old granddaughter, Olive (Abigail Breslin).

When Olive learns she has qualified for the "Little Miss Sunshine" beauty contest that is being held in Redondo Beach, California in two days, she is ecstatic.
However, money is tight and due to various logistical issues, the only way to make the trip is if the entire household goes.
Despite Richard, Dwayne, and Frank in particular not wanting to go, they all band together to support Olive and embark upon the 800-mile road trip in their antiquated yellow Volkswagen T2 Microbus.

Family tensions play out during the journey, amidst the aging van's increasingly troublesome mechanical problems.
When the van's clutch breaks early in the trip, the family discovers that they must push the van until it reaches 20 miles per hour and then run and jump in.
Later, the horn starts honking unceasingly, resulting in the family getting pulled over.

Throughout the road trip, the family suffers numerous personal setbacks, and discover their need for each other's support.
Richard loses an important contract that would have jump-started his motivational business and saved the family from financial ruin.
Frank encounters the ex-boyfriend who, in leaving him for Frank's chief academic rival (who has also just received a MacArthur Grant), precipitated his suicide attempt.
Edwin dies from an apparent heroin overdose.
In order to reach their destination in time, the family smuggles his body out of the hospital, (illegally transporting it across state lines in the process), planning to make funeral arrangements after the pageant.
During the final stretch of the trip, Dwayne discovers that he is color blind, and therefore can never get a pilot's license, which prompts him to break his silence, refusing to continue with the trip and revealing his anger and disdain for his family.
He storms from the van in tears, but is calmed down by a hug from Olive and returns to the family, apologizing for the things he yelled.