Architect Peter Mitchell (Tom Selleck), cartoonist Michael Kellam (Steve Guttenberg) and actor Jack Holden (Ted Danson) are happy living their lives as bachelors in their lofty New York City apartment.
Their lives are disrupted when a baby named Mary arrives on their doorstep one day.
A note with the child, Mary, indicates that it is Jack's, the result of an affair with a recent co-star.
The baby arrives in Jack's absence – he is in Turkey shooting a B movie, leaving Peter and Michael to fend for themselves in taking care of the child.
Prior to leaving, Jack had made arrangements with a director friend to have a "package" delivered to the apartment as a favor.
Before Mary's arrival, Jack calls and leaves a message with Peter and Michael informing them of the "package" and to keep it a secret per the director friend's wishes.
When Mary arrives, Peter and Michael mistakenly believe she is the "package", even though there is a note from her mother.

Peter and Michael are totally befuddled on how to care for Mary, and Peter leaves to go buy whatever supplies are needed.
While Peter is gone, Mrs. Hathaway (Cynthia Harris), the landlady, delivers a small box (which is the actual "package" containing heroin) to the apartment and Michael tosses it aside while trying to keep Mary under control.
After Peter returns, the two eventually figure out Mary's proper care, right down to diaper changes, bathings, and feedings.

The next day, two men (who are drug dealers) arrive at the apartment to collect the heroin.
Peter and Michael mistakenly give Mary to the men instead, and shortly after they leave, Peter discovers the actual package.
He runs downstairs to intercept the dealers, but trips and stumbles, and the box's contents spill.
Peter gathers the heroin and retrieves Mary from the drug dealers, but retains the heroin while allowing the dealers to take a can of powdered milk.
After the exchange, a police officer attempts to ticket the drug dealers for illegal parking, but they escape.
The officer accosts Peter and detains him in the apartment until Sgt.
Melkowitz (Philip Bosco), a narcotics officer, arrives to question Peter and Michael about the drugs.
They successfully hide the drugs from Melkowitz during the interrogation, in which they learn that Jack's friend is a drug dealer as well.
Melkowitz leaves with suspicions and puts the men and the apartment under surveillance.

Peter and Michael are able to persuade Mrs. Hathaway to sit with Mary while they tend to work.
Once they arrive home, however, they find the Mrs. Hathaway tied up and gagged and the apartment ransacked, apparently by the dealers demanding the heroin.
Mary is safe, however.
The men continue with their care of Mary, adjusting to surrogate fatherhood and growing attached to her, until Jack returns.

Once Jack returns, Peter and Michael question him about the entire drug deal and Mary.
Jack replies that he knew nothing about the drugs and initially denies everything about Mary until he reads the note from the mother, named Sylvia.
He then recalls the affair that eventually led to Mary being born.
Peter and Michael do not hesitate in taking their revenge and passing all responsibility of looking after Mary to Jack, but Jack quickly grows to love his daughter.

Later, Peter discovers in the mail a news clipping of Jack's director friend being hospitalized after a mugging (presumably by the drug dealers), with a handwritten note, 'don't let this happen to you'.
They formulate a plan to meet and trap the dealers when they negotiate a deal to deliver the illicit goods.
With a recording of the conversation, the men prove their innocence to Melkowitz and the dealers are arrested.

By now, the three men have fully embraced their role as Mary's guardians.
However, one morning, Sylvia (Nancy Travis) arrives, asking for Mary back intending to take her to England to live with her family.
Handing her over, the three quickly find themselves miserable and desperately missing Mary.
Deciding to stop Sylvia and Mary from leaving, they rush to the airport to try and persuade Sylvia to stay, but they arrive just as her plane leaves.
Defeated, the men return to their apartment, where they find both Sylvia and Mary.
Sylvia explains she doesn't want to give up her career but can't do this if she has to raise Mary alone, so Peter quickly invites her and Mary to move into their apartment with them with Jack and Michael's agreement, and she agrees.