In 1993, Erin Brockovich (Julia Roberts) is an unemployed single mother of three children, who has recently been injured in a traffic accident with a doctor and is suing him.
Her lawyer, Ed Masry (Albert Finney), expects to win, but Erin's courtroom behavior loses her the case.
After she makes several attempts to contact Ed at his office with no reply, Ed arrives at work to find her in the office, appearing to do work.
He confronts her, and she says that he told her things would work out and they didn't, and that she needed a job.
He feels bad for her, and decides to give her a try at the office.

Erin is given files for a real-estate case where Pacific Gas and Electric (PG&E) is offering to purchase the home of Hinkley, California, resident Donna Jensen.
Erin is surprised to see medical records in the file and visits Donna, who explains that she had simply kept all her PG&E correspondence together.
Donna appreciates PG&E's help: she has had several tumors and her husband has Hodgkin's disease, but PG&E has always supplied a doctor at their own expense.
Erin asks why they would do that, and Donna replies, "because of the chromium".
Erin begins digging into the case and finds evidence that the groundwater in Hinkley is contaminated with carcinogenic hexavalent chromium, but PG&E has been telling Hinkley residents that they use a safer form of chromium.
She persuades Ed to allow her to do further research, and wins the trust of many Hinkley residents.
She finds many cases of tumors and other medical problems in Hinkley.
Everyone has been treated by PG&E's doctors and thinks the cluster of cases is just a coincidence, unrelated to the "safe" chromium.

A man tells her he was tasked with destroying documents at PG&E, but noticed the medical conditions plaguing the workers and kept the documents instead.
He then gives the documents to her.
A 1966 memo proves corporate headquarters knew the water was contaminated with hexavalent chromium, did nothing about it, and advised the Hinkley operation to keep this secret.

Rather than delay any settlement for years, Ed takes the opportunity to arrange for disposition by binding arbitration.
Erin persuades all 634 plaintiffs to go along.
The judge orders PG&E to pay a settlement amount of $333 million to be distributed among the plaintiffs.
In the final scene, Ed hands Erin her bonus payment for the case, but says he has changed the amount.
She starts to complain that she deserves more respect, but is astonished to find that he has increased it to $2 million.