In 1995, John Connor is ten years old and living in Los Angeles with foster parents.
His mother Sarah Connor had been preparing him throughout his childhood for his future role as the leader of the human resistance against Skynet, but was arrested after attempting to bomb a computer factory and imprisoned at a mental hospital under the supervision of Dr. Silberman.
Skynet sends a new Terminator, designated as "T-1000", back in time to kill John.
An advanced prototype, the T-1000 is composed of a "mimetic poly-alloy" that allows it to take on the shape and appearance of anything it touches (short of complex devices such as guns or bombs), and transform parts of its anatomy into knives and stabbing weapons.
The T-1000 arrives under a freeway, kills a policeman and assumes his identity.
Meanwhile, the future John Connor has sent back a reprogrammed T-800 Terminator to protect his younger self.

The Terminator and the T-1000 converge on John in a shopping mall, and a chase ensues in which John and the Terminator escape together by motorcycle.
Fearing that the T-1000 will copy and kill Sarah in order to get to him, John orders the Terminator to help free her.
They encounter Sarah escaping the hospital after severely injuring Dr. Silberman's staff and himself.
The three escape the T-1000 in a police car.
The Terminator informs John and Sarah about Skynet, the artificial intelligence that will initiate a nuclear war on "Judgment Day" and go on to create the machines that will hunt the remnants of humanity.
[N 1] Sarah learns that the man most directly responsible for Skynet's creation is Miles Dyson, a Cyberdyne Systems engineer working on a revolutionary new microprocessor that will form the basis for Skynet.

Sarah gathers weapons from an old friend and plans to flee with John to Mexico, but after having a horrific nightmare of a nuclear explosion she awakens and sets out to kill Miles Dyson to prevent "Judgment Day" from occurring.
She wounds him at his home but finds herself unable to kill him in front of his family.
John and the Terminator arrive and inform Miles of the consequences of his work.
They then learn that much of his research has been reverse engineered from the damaged CPU and the right arm of the previous Terminator.
Convincing him that these items and his designs must be destroyed, they break into the Cyberdyne building and retrieve the CPU and the arm.
The police arrive and Miles is shot, but stays behind to trigger the explosives that destroy his lab and his research.
The T-1000 pursues the surviving trio, eventually cornering them in a steel mill.

In a climactic battle in the mill, the T-1000 succeeds in severely damaging and shutting down the Terminator.
However, The Terminator's emergency backup system engages and brings him back on-line.
He surprises and shoots the T-1000 with a grenade launcher, causing it to fall into a vat of molten steel, where it is destroyed.
John throws the arm and CPU of the original Terminator into the vat as well.
Just as Sarah felt relieved that the whole ordeal was over, the Terminator then explains that it must sacrifice itself so that its technology cannot be used to create Skynet, and asks Sarah to help lower it into the steel.
John begs for the Terminator to stay, but he says goodbye to John and Sarah and is lowered into the vat.
The Terminator gives a tearful John an encouraging thumbs up as it disappears into the steel and shuts down.
Sarah looks to the future with hope, adding, "Because if a machine, a Terminator, can learn the value of human life, maybe we can too."