Amateur tennis star Guy Haines (Farley Granger) wants to divorce his vulgar and promiscuous wife Miriam (Laura Elliott), so he can marry the elegant Anne Morton (Ruth Roman), the daughter of a senator, and hopefully have a career in politics.
On a train Haines accidentally meets Bruno Anthony (Robert Walker), who recognizes Guy.
Bruno tells Guy about his idea for the perfect murders: Bruno will kill Miriam, and in exchange Guy will kill Bruno's father.
They have no identifiable motive for the crimes, and therefore they will not be suspects.
Guy hurriedly leaves, but Bruno feels he has agreed.
Bruno pockets Guy's monogrammed cigarette lighter.

Guy meets up with Miriam, who is pregnant by someone else and now does not want a divorce.
He calls Anne and tells her he wants to "strangle" Miriam.
At Bruno's home, his doting mother and unpleasant father live in luxury.
Bruno and Guy talk on the phone; Guy explains that his wife refused the divorce and hangs up.
Bruno follows Miriam and her two beaux to an amusement park, stalks her through various rides, and strangles her to death on the "Magic Isle".

Bruno waits for Guy and gives him Miriam's glasses, also reminding him that he is now obliged to kill Bruno's father.
Bruno sends Guy his house key, a map to his father's room, and, later, a pistol.

Senator Morton (Leo G. Carroll) informs Guy that his wife has been murdered.
The police question Guy; his alibi fails when the drunken college professor he met on a train does not remember him.
Guy is given a police escort who follows him.
Bruno also continues to follow Guy, around the Jefferson Memorial, at the National Gallery of Art, and at his tennis match at Forest Hills.

Bruno introduces himself to Anne, and sees Barbara (Anne's younger sister Patricia Hitchcock) who reminds him of Miriam.
Soon afterwards, Bruno appears at a party at Senator Morton's house, hobnobbing with the guests, much to Guy's apprehension and Anne's increasing suspicion.
Using another guest, Bruno demonstrates how to strangle someone.
He again sees Barbara; her resemblance to Miriam triggers a flashback, and he begins to really strangle the woman.
He blacks out and Barbara tells her sister, "His hands were on her throat, but he was strangling me."
Anne confronts Guy, who explains the truth about the crime.

According to Bruno's original plan, Guy creeps into Bruno's home at night.
He reaches Bruno's father's room hoping to warn him, but Bruno is waiting for him.
Because Guy will not complete his end of the bargain, Bruno says Guy must instead take responsibility for the murder which "belongs" to him; Bruno will see to that.

Anne visits Bruno's house explaining to his befuddled mother (Marion Lorne) that her son is responsible for a murder, but the woman does not believe her.
Bruno overhears the conversation.
He lets Anne know that he has Guy's lighter and will plant it at the scene of Miriam's murder.
Anne and Guy devise a plan to finish his tennis match, evade his police escort, and reach the amusement park before Bruno plants the lighter.

Guy eventually wins the long match at Forest Hills.
Bruno is also delayed when he drops Guy's lighter down a storm drain and has to recover it.
Guy arrives at the amusement park.
Bruno is waiting for sunset and tries to stay out of sight until he can plant the lighter, but one of the workers recognizes him from the night of the murder and informs the police.

Guy and Bruno struggle on the carousel.
A shot fired by the police hits the carousel operator.
The ride spins wildly out of control and crashes.
Bruno is mortally wounded.
The worker tells the police chief that Bruno is the one from the night of the crime, not Guy.
Guy explains that Bruno is at the amusement park to "plant" Guy's lighter there.
With his last breath Bruno lies to the police, but after death Bruno's fingers open to reveal Guy's lighter.