David Stephens (Christopher Eccleston), a chartered accountant, Juliet Miller (Kerry Fox), a physician, and Alex Law (Ewan McGregor), a journalist, are three yuppies who share a flat in Edinburgh.
Needing a new flatmate, they interview several applicants in a calculatedly cruel manner to amuse themselves at the applicants' distress, finally settling on one mysterious Hugo (Keith Allen).
Very shortly after Hugo moves in, however, the trio find him dead in his room, having left behind a large suitcase full of money.
They agree to keep Hugo's death a secret and keep the money for themselves.
They bury the body in a secret grave in the woods, after first cutting off the hands and feet, smashing in the face, and removing the teeth to prevent identification of the body.
To David falls the gruesome and traumatising task of dismembering the corpse, and to Juliet that of disposing of the hands and feet in her hospital incinerator.
Only the louche Alex seems to keep his equanimity.

Unknown to the conspirators, Hugo, who was evidently a thug, is being sought by two ex-accomplices, who brutally kill potential informers along the way.
The flat below Alex, David, and Juliet's is broken into, causing them much apprehension and anxiety.
The break-in also draws the attention of the police, who are surprised when the three deny that they ever had a fourth flatmate.
While Juliet and Alex spend part of the money to 'feel better', David's fears explode into full-blown paranoia.
He hides the suitcase of money in the attic, and begins living there, drilling holes in the attic floor to watch the living space below.
The relationship between the three becomes increasingly strained and distrustful, with undertones of sexual tension and rivalry.

The men trailing Hugo break into the trio's flat and violently assault Alex and Juliet, until they reveal where the money is.
As the hoods enter the dark attic one by one, David, who has been lying there in wait, kills them with a hammer.
The trio again visit the same woods to dispose of the two bodies.
Alex and Juliet become more worried than ever about David's mental state and David becomes worried that the two are conspiring against him.
Juliet secretly buys a plane ticket to South America in anticipation of flight overseas, but also seduces David to get at the money.
Matters come to a head after the bodies are discovered by chance - the grave having been too shallow - and Alex is sent by his newspaper to cover the story.
He returns to find Juliet and David have reached an understanding about their shared plans that excludes him.
That night, Alex - now fearing for his life - tries to secretly phone the police inspector in charge of the case, but he is interrupted by David and Juliet leaving.
The doorstep altercation quickly escalates into a murderous triangular fight.
David reveals he knows Juliet's secret plan to betray them, and lunges to attack her.
Alex intervenes to defend her, and tries to persuade her to let David leave with the suitcase.
In the ensuing scuffle, David ends up stabbing Alex deep in the shoulder with a kitchen knife, but before he can stab him a second time, he is himself killed by Juliet by a single knife blow through the throat from behind.

With David dead, Juliet tells Alex he can't come with her, and forces David's knife even further into Alex's shoulder, pinning him to the wooden kitchen floor.
She then flees to the airport with the suitcase.
However, arriving at the airport, she discovers that she has been tricked - the suitcase is filled not with money but with hundreds of headline clippings about the triple grave taken from Alex's newspaper.
Devastated, with no possessions except her plane ticket, and knowing that she will soon be wanted for murder, Juliet flees the country.
The police arrive at the flat to find Alex bleeding heavily and pinned to the floor.
The camera pans to under the floor to reveal Alex's treachery - there, secreted under the floorboards, are the missing bundles of cash.