In 1995, the small and staunchly conservative town of Mount Rose, Minnesota is preparing for its annual beauty pageant.
Amber Atkins (Kirsten Dunst) signs up for the pageant, hoping that by winning she will be able to leave the dead-end town and become successful.
She also does it to follow in the footsteps of her idols, Diane Sawyer, and her mother, a former contestant.
Amber and her mother Annette Atkins (Ellen Barkin) live in a trailer near their friend Loretta (Allison Janney).
Amber works as a beautician at the local funeral home, and as a dishwasher at her school.
She is in stark contrast to Rebecca Leeman (Denise Richards), the daughter of the richest man in town, and to Gladys Leeman (Kirstie Alley).
Mrs. Leeman is the head of the pageant organizing committee and also a former winner who criticizes "big city, no bra-wearing, hairy-legged, women-libber's" opinions on the benefits of pageants.
Various business connections between the Leeman Furniture Store and the judges of the pageant (one is an employee) cause many to speculate that the contest will be fixed.

The audience is introduced to the other contestants and judges as the crew documents the events leading up to the pageant.
There are dancing lessons, and individual interviews where the girls answer such revealing questions as "If you could be any tree in the forest, what tree would you be?"
Amber, however, is asked to name and spell all fifty states in alphabetical order.

Many odd events occur around town during the run-up to the pageant.
One contestant, Tammy Curry, athlete and President of the Lutheran Sisterhood Gun Club (beating out Becky for the leadership), is killed when her tractor explodes.
Brett Clemmens, Rebecca's love interest (who is more interested in Amber), is shot dead in a "hunting accident."
Fearing for her life, Amber decides to pull out of the pageant after her mother, Annette, is injured in an explosion at their mobile home.
Annette lands on a neighbor's lawn and is sent to the hospital for critical burns and the removal of her hand onto which a can of beer melted.
After a pep-talk with a family friend, Loretta, and a heart-to-heart with her mother, Amber reconsiders.
At the dress rehearsal, fellow contestant Jenelle Betz (originally contestant number 8), swaps positions with Amber (originally contestant number 1).
When Jenelle walks on stage at the beginning of rehearsal to perform her talent piece, a stage light falls and hits her in the head, knocking her unconscious and rendering her deaf.
Janelle's talent in the pageant was to do an interpretive dance with sign language.

At the pageant, Amber's tap costume goes missing.
Amber blames Becky and the two get into a hair pulling fight in which Iris and Amber's best friend Lisa Swenson (Brittany Murphy), have to break them apart.
The pageant's choreography Chloris Klinghagen (Mary Gillis), gives a costume for Amber to wear but it is denied by Iris and Gladys as costumes for the show had to be okayed weeks prior to the pageant.
After comforting crying Amber, Lisa decides to drop out of the pageant in order to give her own costume to Amber.
Amber then performs her tap-dance number to a standing ovation, while Rebecca sings a cringe-worthy rendition of "Can't Take My Eyes Off You" and dances with a Jesus doll on a crucifix, horrifying many spectators.
Though Amber was clearly the more talented of the two, she is named first runner up to Rebecca, with Leslie Miller (Amy Adams), a ditzy, promiscuous, but kind-hearted cheerleader for the Mount Rose Muskies, coming in third.
However, during the victory parade the next day, Rebecca is riding in an elaborate swan float and is killed in a freak accident.
Standing by the burnt-out float, the grief-stricken Gladys admits to killing Tammy and to being responsible for all the attempts against Amber in the run-up to the pageant.
She is arrested.
At Rebecca's funeral, Amber is crowned Mount Rose's American Teen Princess and goes on to the state competition.

At the State Competition, Amber wins the Minnesota American Teen Princess title by default after all the other contestants fall ill with seafood-related food poisoning.
Amber didn't get food poisoning because her mom always said, "Never eat anything that carries its house around with it.
Who knows the last time it's been cleaned."
As the winner, Amber gets an all-expenses-paid trip to Lincoln, Alabama, where the national Sarah Rose American Teen Princess Pageant is held.
Upon arrival, Amber and the other contestants find that the company has been shut down by the IRS for tax evasion.
While the distraught girls violently wreck the forecourt of the Sarah Rose Cosmetics building, Amber simply sighs and gets back onto the chartered bus.

A few years later, second runner-up Leslie went to beauty school, became an exotic dancer, and is now missing somewhere in the Philippines.
Harold Vilmes, one of the judges for the pageant, died from lyme disease from a deer tick bite, leaving his mentally-disabled little brother Hank their hardware store.
After being runner-up in a prison beauty pageant, Gladys escapes from prison and is sniping from the top of the Food Shack supermarket.
During the six-hour police siege, a television reporter doing a live report at the scene, is hit by a stray bullet.
Amber, who happened to be nearby, quickly picks up her mike and takes over, impressing the news station.
The film closes with Amber as co-anchor of the evening news for Minneapolis–St.
Paul television station WAZB-TV.