MI6 sends James Bond, agent 007, into the field to spy on a terrorist arms bazaar on the Russian border.
Via television, MI6 and the Royal Navy identify several wanted men, including American "techno-terrorist" Henry Gupta, who is buying a GPS encoder made by the U.S. military.
Despite M's insistence to let 007 finish his reconnaissance, British Admiral Roebuck launches a missile attack on the arms bazaar.
Bond then discovers two Soviet nuclear torpedoes mounted on an L-39 Albatros, and as the missile is too far along to be aborted, 007 hijacks the L-39 and flies away seconds before the bazaar is struck.
Amidst the confusion, Gupta escapes with the encoder.

Media baron Elliot Carver, head of the Carver Media Group Network (CMGN), begins his plans to use the encoder to provoke war between China and the United Kingdom, which would replace the current Chinese government with one more supportive to Carver's plans of exclusive broadcast rights.
Meaconing the GPS signal using the encoder, Gupta sends the British frigate HMS Devonshire off-course into Chinese-held waters in the South China Sea, where Carver's stealth ship, commanded by Mr. Stamper, sinks the frigate with a sea drill and steals one of its missiles.
Afterwards, Stamper's men shoot down a Chinese J-7 fighter jet sent to investigate the British presence, and kill the Devonshire's survivors with Chinese weaponry.
After reading a CMGN report of the incident as a Chinese attack, Roebuck deploys the British Fleet to recover the frigate, and possibly retaliate, leaving M only forty-eight hours to investigate its sinking.

M sends Bond to investigate Carver after Carver Media releases news with critical details hours before these events have become known, and MI6 noticed a spurious signal from one of his CMGN communications satellites when the frigate was sunk.
Bond travels to Hamburg and seduces Carver's wife, Paris, an ex-girlfriend, to get information that would help him enter Carver's newspaper headquarters.
After Bond steals back the GPS encoder, Carver orders Paris and Bond killed.
Paris is killed by Dr. Kaufman, but Bond kills Kaufman and escapes.
Bond then goes to the South China Sea to investigate the wreck, discovering one of the missiles missing.
He and Wai Lin, a Chinese spy on the same case, are captured by Stamper and taken to the CMGN tower in Ho Chi Minh City, but they escape and then collaborate on the investigation.

The two contact the Royal Navy and the People's Liberation Army Air Force to explain Carver's scheme.
They find Carver's stealth ship in Ha Long Bay and board it to prevent him from firing the stolen British cruise missile at Beijing.
During the battle, Wai Lin is captured.
Bond captures Gupta to use as his own hostage, but Carver kills Gupta, claiming he has "outlived his contract".
Bond detonates an explosive, damaging the ship and making it visible to radar, and vulnerable to a subsequent Royal Navy attack.
While Wai Lin disables the engines, Bond attempts to halt the missile.
After killing Carver with his own sea drill, Bond attempts to destroy the warhead, but Stamper appears and attacks him.
Bond traps Stamper in the missile firing mechanism and dives to save Wai Lin as the missile explodes, destroying the ship and killing Stamper.
Bond and Wai Lin survive amidst the wreckage as HMS Bedford searches for them.