In Los Angeles, Parker Barnes (Washington) and another man, John Donovan (Costas Mandylor) are tracking down a serial killer named SID 6.7 (Crowe) at a restaurant in virtual reality.
However, things go completely catastrophic as SID puts Donovan into shock, killing him and the director overseeing the project, Commissioner Elizabeth Deane (Fletcher) and her associate, William Wallace (Fichtner) order the programmer in charge of creating SID, Dr. Darrel Lindenmeyer (Spinella) to shut down the project.
It is then revealed that Barnes is a former police officer who was put into prison for killing political terrorist Matthew Grimes (Christopher Murray), who had killed Parker's wife and daughter before and innocent bystanders.
This caused Barnes to become a convicted killer and to serve 17 years to life.

Later, Barnes meets with criminal psychologist Dr. Madison Carter (Lynch), following a fight that Barnes and another prisoner, Big Red (Gordon Jennison Noice) got into over Donovan's death.
Meanwhile, Lindenmeyer tells SID that he is about to be shut down because of the fail safe being messed with, but SID thinks otherwise.
Later on, Clyde Reilly (O'Connor) is convinced by Lindenmeyer that a virtual reality prostitute, Shelia 3.2 (Heidi Schanz), another project created by Lindenmeyer, can be brought to life.
However, the Shelia 3.2 module is replaced by the SID 6.7 module.
Afterwards, Reilly and Lindenmeyer are surprised and shocked when SID 6.7, now processed into the real world, comes to life and kills Reilly.
Once the word about SID being in the real world gets out, Commissioner Deane and Chief William Cochran of the LAPD (Forsythe) give Barnes a deal: If he catches SID and brings him back to virtual reality, he will be set free.
Barnes agrees to the deal, and with help from Carter, they discover that Matthew Grimes, the terrorist that killed Barnes's wife and daughter, is a part of SID 6.7.
Meanwhile, SID, having killed a group of security guards, taking their guns and wearing somebody else's clothes, heads over to the Media Zone, a local nightclub where he starts up a massive shootout and takes everybody hostage.
Barnes and Carter hear about it and go to the nightclub to stop him, only for SID to escape in an LAPD squad car, with Barnes and Carter in hot pursuit in their 1995 Chevrolet Blazer.
During the chase, SID taunts Barnes over the police radio about being free from prison, and after the chase, SID escapes and disappears, much to Barnes's frustration.

The next day, SID starts up another killing spree, and this time it's at the Los Angeles Olympic Auditorium, where he flirts with a beautiful woman (Mara Duronslet), and afterwards uses a line that Grimes used to taunt Barnes with: "Hey Parker!
This one's for you!".
Barnes soon arrives at the Stadium to capture SID, and immediately catches him on a train, where another hostage is being held by SID.
Barnes is once again taunted by SID and kills the hostage in front of a bunch of horrified witnesses.
Carter, having caught up with Barnes after the incident, tries to prove Barnes's innocence, but Barnes is about to be sent back to prison while SID is still on the loose.
Moments later, Barnes is set free from Prisoner Transport by SID, who once again escapes.
Wallace and Deane are about to have Barnes electrocuted, since he almost failed in the mission of trying to catch SID, but Cochran destroys the fail safe transmitter to save Barnes's life after being told by Carter that Barnes didn't have anything to do with killing the hostage on the train.
Later that day, SID kidnaps Carter's daughter, Karin (Cuoco) and takes over an entire television studio later that night.
Barnes and Carter then go to the studio to try and stop SID once and for all, while trying to save Karin.
Meanwhile, Lindenmeyer, having come out of hiding, sees what SID is doing and is impressed, but later held hostage by Carter.
In a final chase, Barnes ultimately destroys SID, but in an alternate event, Barnes is thrown from the building by SID.
Soon, SID discovers that he is back in virtual reality and goes into a rage.
Barnes then convinces Cochran to let him and Carter out of VR, but not before Lindenmeyer kills Cochran brutally.
Barnes then starts to go into the same shock that Donovan was in earlier, but Carter kills Lindenmeyer in the process and saves Barnes from the same fate.

By the end, Barnes and Carter return to the same building that SID took over in the real world and save Karin from being killed by SID.
After Karin is saved, Barnes goes on top of the building roof and throws the SID 6.7 module straight down onto the street, with a group of cars crushing it.