The story introduces Duff Anderson on the railroad, playing checkers with his rail worker friends, at a pool hall, and on the street at night.
At a church meeting featuring lively gospel music, Duff meets the pretty and genteel schoolteacher Josie Dawson.
They begin to date against the will of Preacher Dawson (Josie’s father).
Duff tells her he doesn't want to get married.
But after visiting his illegitimate son who has been abandoned to the care of a wet nurse, and his drunken father who is barely keeping it together under the care of a loving wife, Duff realizes that he prefers the stability of a family to the life of a drifter.
The two marry with bright hopes for the future, but then begin to face a series of challenges as a married couple.
Being on the move had given Duff the illusion of freedom, but living in the town makes Duff subject to the town's social rules, and he immediately starts to have problems.
He hates his preacher father-in-law, whom he sees as having sold out to the white people, and he hurtfully says to his wife, "You've never really been a nigger, living with them, in that house."
After refusing to bow down to the white bosses at the mill he is fired, and subsequently finds himself blacklisted.
His father-in-law finally finds him a job at a gas station, but customers who find him too proud for a black "boy" threaten to cause trouble if the boss keeps him on.
Duff and his wife get into a fight because of the emotional and physical trials Duff faces, and because of the added pressure that a coming baby adds.
Unwilling either to kowtow to white bosses or to pick cotton for $2.50 a day he leaves in a rage, telling his wife that he will write her when he is on his feet again.
Duff storms off to his father, who is so inebriated that he dies as Duff and his stepmother are driving him to the hospital.
Neither Duff nor his stepmother knows where his father was born or how old he was, and the only possessions he has handed down to Duff are the contents of his pockets.
Duff and his stepmother stare at one another, facing the grim reality of the invisibleness and lack of history of the negro.
The film concludes as Duff gains the courage to return home with his son, and the two tearfully embrace as he reassures her that "everything is gonna be all right”.