Since oil supplies have been nearly exhausted in the near future, law & order has begun to break down, and Main Force Patrol (MFP) itself is no longer functional following a global war.
Max "Mad Max" Rockatansky, who left MFP over 5 years ago, traumatised by the death of his family, roams the now depopulated and desolate desert in his scarred, black supercharged V-8 Pursuit Special (which he drove to kill the motorcycle gang who killed his family), scavenging for food, drink, and petrol.
His only companions are an Australian Cattle Dog and a rare functioning firearm – a sawn-off shotgun – for which ammunition is very scarce.

The film starts with Max racing ahead in the road, trying to escape from a group of gang members, led by a crazed motorcycle rider named Wez.
He manages to crash two of the gang member's vehicles and injure Wez, but Wez escapes.
After collecting some fuel from the destroyed cars and checking a local Mack semi-truck he found on the road, he inspects a nearby autogyro for fuel.
The autogyro is boobytrapped, but Max overpowers the pilot hiding nearby.
In exchange for his own life, the pilot tells Max about a small oil refinery nearby in the wasteland.
Max arrives just as the marauders, a motley collection of cars and motorbikes, besiege the compound.
Their leader, a large, muscular man with a hockey mask over his disfigured face called "The Humungus," tries to convince the settlers to surrender the facility in exchange for safe passage out of his territory.

A group of settlers attempt to break out of the compound, but the marauders capture, torture, rape and kill them.
Max makes a deal with the mortally-wounded sole survivor: he will bring the settler back to the compound in exchange for a tank of petrol.
The man dies shortly after Max returns him, and the settlers' leader, named Pappagallo, reneges on the deal.
The settlers are on the verge of killing Max when the marauders return, and Humungus repeats his offer.
Max offers Pappagallo another deal: he will retrieve the abandoned Mack semi-truck, which is capable of hauling the tanker trailer that the settlers use to store the fuel they refine, in exchange for freedom, his vehicle, and as much petrol as he can take with him.
The settlers accept, but keep Max's car to ensure his cooperation.
Max sneaks out, joining forces with the autogyro pilot, or "Gyro Captain."

Max drives the semi back to the compound, evading Humungus' men.
The settlers want Max to escape with the group, but Max opts to collect his petrol and leave.
However, his attempt to break through the siege fails: Wez gives chase in The Humungus's nitrous oxide-equipped car and runs Max off of the road, wrecking his Pursuit Special and seriously wounding him.
The marauders kill Max's dog with a crossbow and attempt to siphon the fuel from the Pursuit Special's tanks, but trigger an explosive booby trap, which Max set up, that destroys the car.
Max is left for dead, but the Gyro Captain rescues him and flies him back to the compound.

Despite his injuries, Max insists on driving the repaired truck with the fuel tanker.
He leaves the compound in the now heavily armored truck, accompanied by a "Feral Kid" he has befriended, and with several settlers in armored vehicles providing protection.
The Humungus and most of his warriors pursue the tanker, leaving the remaining settlers free to flee the compound in a ramshackle caravan and buses.
Papagallo and the settlers defending the tanker are killed during the chase, and the Gyro Captain is shot down.
Max and the Feral Kid find themselves alone against the marauders, who continue their pursuit.
Wez boards the truck to kill the two, but a head-on collision with Humungus' car kills both Wez and Humungus.
Max loses control of the tanker, and it rolls off the road.
As the injured Max carries the Feral Kid from the wrecked tanker, he sees not oil, but sand, leaking from the tank.

The truck and its trailer are thus exposed as a decoy, allowing the other settlers to escape with the precious fuel in oil drums inside their vehicles.
With Papagallo dead, the Gyro Captain succeeds him as their chief and leads the settlers to the coast, where they establish the "Great Northern Tribe."
Max remains alone in the desert, once again becoming a drifter, leaving the Feral Kid (as an adult and the Northern Tribe's eventual new leader) reminiscing about him.