Rabid (1977) movie script - Screenplays for You
















var gaJsHost = (("https:" == document.location.protocol) ? "https://ssl." : "http://www.");
document.write(unescape("%3Cscript src='" + gaJsHost + "google-analytics.com/ga.js' type='text/javascript'%3E%3C/script%3E"));


try {
var pageTracker = _gat._getTracker("UA-11048248-1");
pageTracker._trackPageview();
} catch(err) {}



(function(w, c) {
    (w[c] = w[c] || []).push(function() {
        try {
            w.yaCounter2880262 = new Ya.Metrika(2880262);
             yaCounter2880262.clickmap(true);

        } catch(e) {}
    });
})(window, 'yandex_metrika_callbacks');


&lt;div style="position:absolute"&gt;&lt;img src="//mc.yandex.ru/watch/2880262" alt="" /&gt;&lt;/div&gt;





Screenplays for You - free movie scripts and screenplays

About   Links  








Screenplays and movie scripts organized alphabetically:#  A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  J  K  L  M  N  O  P  Q  R  S  T  U  V  W  X  Y  Z   PDF



<!--
google_ad_client = "pub-1850297377568722";
google_ad_slot = "6005341666";
google_ad_width = 728;
google_ad_height = 90;
//-->


Rabid (1977) movie scriptby David Cronenberg.Shooting draft, 1977.
More info about this movie on IMDb.com


EXT. HILLY COUNTRY ROAD -- DAY

A large, black, powerful-looking motorcycle waits propped up 
on its center stand on the gravel shoulder of a deserted 
country road. The gold lettering on its tank and side covers 
identifies it as a Norton Commando 850.

Two white Bell full-coverage helmets sit on its saddle, like 
medieval jousting helmets.

Beyond the motorcycle, stretched out on a grassy rise, lie 
Hart Read, twenty-six, and his long-time girlfriend Rose, 
who is the kind of eighteen that often seems more like 
fifteen, and once in a while like twelve.

At the moment Rose is definitely eighteen and in control of 
things, producing tuna sandwiches with lettuce and mayonnaise 
out of a string bag and pouring coffee, pre-mixed with sugar 
and milk, from a small thermos flask. Read watches her play 
housewife with vast amusement. Rose holds out a sandwich.

          READ
     What've we got, Rose? Steak on a 
     bun?

          ROSE
     Tuna with lettuce and mayo. You gonna 
     make trouble?

          READ
     Yeah. Big trouble.

He grabs Rose's wrist and pulls her close. He looks her deep 
in the eyes.

          READ
     I want steak.

Read kisses her full on the mouth. Rose drops the sandwich 
into the grass.

          READ
     Steak.

They kiss passionately.

EXT. HILLY COUNTRY ROAD -- DAY -- ONE HOUR LATER

Read kicks the big Norton into life. Rose puts on her helmet, 
does up the chin strap, and gets on the machine behind Read. 
Read waits for her to get settled, blips the throttle, then 
accelerates off the shoulder of the road, fishtailing slightly 
in the gravel.

EXT. HILLY COUNTRY ROAD -- DAY

The Norton booms along the twisty two-lane road. The road is 
clear and Read feels good. He opens the throttle even more, 
almost becoming airborne over the crest of a steep rise, and 
leaning the bike over in the corners until he scrapes rubber 
off the footpegs.

Rose rides loose, completely at ease behind Read. She clasps 
her arms around him loosely, always going with the motion of 
the machine, closing her eyes in pleasure.

EXT. HILLY COUNTRY ROAD -- DAY

Further up the road, a neat white VW pop-top camper trundles 
along in the opposite direction carrying a middle-aged man, 
his wife, and their twelve-year-old daughter. They are city 
slickers out for an autumn camping jaunt, and things are not 
going well for them.

          WIFE
          (scrutinizing crumpled 
          map)
     We passed it.

          MAN
     We didn't pass it. I remember that 
     farm.

          WIFE
     We passed it. That farm comes after 
     concession road 12 and we were 
     supposed to turn at concession road 
     11.

          KID
     I don't remember that farm, Dad.

          MAN
     We didn't pass it. I very distinctly 
     remember that farm.

          WIFE
     If you would just stop this vehicle 
     long enough to take a look at the 
     map I will prove to you beyond any 
     shadow of a doubt that we...

          MAN
          (losing his temper)
     All right!

The man swings the camper across both lanes in one furious 
motion and slams on the brakes just before they go over the 
edge of the road into a ditch bordering an open field.

          MAN
     You're both right and I'm all wrong.

He slams the camper into reverse and backs up as far as he 
can, then slams it into first and lurches forward, trying 
vainly to make a clean three-point turn on the narrow road.

          MAN
     We'll turn around and go all the way 
     back.

When the camper is stretched completely across both lanes of 
the highway, it stalls. The man twists the key viciously but 
it won't restart.

          MAN
     Goddamn thing! Shoulda never sold 
     the goddamn station wagon.

          KID
     The station wagon used to use too 
     much gas, remember, Dad?

          WIFE
     You keep quiet when your dad's in a 
     sweat, Valerie.

          MAN
          (still trying to start 
          the camper)
     Goddamn thing. Shoulda never sold 
     the wagon.

Without warning, Read's bike suddenly appears over the crest 
of the hill just beyond the camper. The bike is nearing 100 
miles an hour. The wife sees it first.

          WIFE
     Oh, Christ, Bob!

          MAN
          (looking up)
     Huh? Oh, Christ!

There is no place for Read to go except off the road. The 
bike shoots over the drainage ditch beside the road two feet 
from the nose of the camper. The man and his wife sit with 
their mouths open, watching through their front windshield 
the bike fly through the air into an overgrown field, as 
though it were happening on TV.

EXT. FIELD -- DAY

When the bike finally lands in the field, it hits down front 
wheel first. The impact slams Read over the handlebars into 
the trunk of a small but solid tree. Rose stays with the 
machine for one complete cartwheel. The motorcycle ends up 
on top of her, the tank across her belly. Before she can 
move, the tank explodes into flames. The flames begin to 
melt the plastic visor of her helmet.

EXT. EDGE OF THE FIELD -- DAY

The camper driver turns around in his seat and starts to 
rummage around, looking for something to put out the fire. 
His wife gets hysterical. She can see Rose trying vainly to 
get out from under the bike.

          WIFE
     Oh, my God! She's gonna burn! She's 
     gonna die!

          MAN
     Where's the kid's blanket? Where's 
     the kid's goddamn blanket!?

EXT. TERRACE OF KELOID CLINIC -- DAY

Jackie, a cool blonde English woman in her early forties, 
has been bird-watching from the clinic's terrace. Something 
startling attracts her attention.

          JACKIE
     I don't believe it.

Lloyd Walsh, an actor in his late thirties in the Keloid 
Clinic of Cosmetic Surgery for his second facial touch-up, 
pauses in the middle of a sit-up which he is performing on 
an exercise mat a few yards away. Walsh is wearing a blue 
jogging outfit whose top bears the words 'JOGGING KILLS.' 
His head is bandaged.

          WALSH
     What is it? You spot a rare tufted 
     tit-mouse or somethin'?

Jackie turns away from her binoculars. She has thin surgical 
wires attached to the upper and lower eyelids of both eyes.

          JACKIE
     There's a motorcycle burning in the 
     middle of a field. I think there's 
     somebody under it.

Walsh jumps to his feet with exaggerated athletic vigor.

          WALSH
     Yeah? Lemme have a look.

Jackie hands Walsh her binoculars and points him in the right 
general direction.

          JACKIE
     See that column of smoke? Just follow 
     it down to its source.

We look through the binoculars with him as he does so. Sure 
enough, there is a bike burning in a field with someone 
trapped beneath it.

          WALSH
     Wow. Lookit that!

He turns and begins to sprint for the stairway at the end of 
the terrace.

          JACKIE
     Where are you going?

          WALSH
     Gonna tell the boys downstairs. It's 
     right up their alley.

          JACKIE
     Oh.
          (calling after the 
          disappearing Walsh)
     Careful with my binoculars! They're 
     very expensive!

INT. CLINIC BOARDROOM -- DAY

The three partners who own and operate the Keloid Clinic are 
holding an informal meeting in the posh boardroom of the 
clinic, with cigars (Cypher), cigarettes, coffee, and full 
ashtrays much in evidence.

Involved are Dr. Daniel Keloid, a youthful forty-five, low-
key but forceful, founder of the Keloid Clinic and extremely 
successful society plastic surgeon; Keloid's wife, Roxanne, 
who is herself an MD and who was once a student of Keloid's; 
and Murray Cypher, the clinic's accountant. Cypher is forty-
eight, dapper, generally enthusiastic, and believes 
passionately in creative accounting.

It has apparently been a long and tiring session. Cypher in 
particular shows signs of strain. His end of the table is 
littered with pages of scratch pad covered with hastily 
scrawled notes and figures.

          CYPHER
     As far as I'm concerned these guys 
     are completely legit. The bank is 
     just as convinced as I am. They told 
     me they're willing to go all the way 
     with us. I'm telling you, Danny -- a 
     franchise operation for plastic 
     surgery resorts is one of those 
     magnificent, inevitable ideas.

          KELOID
     Banks are always quick to say that 
     when everything's rolling easy. But 
     you can take it from me -- first 
     sign of heat from the medical 
     association, first cries of 
     professional outrage, and the bank'll 
     call back its note and leave us 
     hanging by our thumbs.

          ROXANNE
     It's not the financing that's 
     bothering you, Dan. Your voice has 
     that edge to it.

          KELOID
     I've never denied it. I sure as hell 
     don't want to become the Colonel 
     Sanders of plastic surgery.

          CYPHER
     Why not? Sounds great to me.

          KELOID
     I'll tell you why not. Because it's 
     unprofessional, unmedical, and 
     unsavory.

          CYPHER
     You thought of it.

          KELOID
     I was only kidding.

          CYPHER
     You were not. Besides, you want me 
     to go back and tell three of the 
     largest investment groups in North 
     America, 'Forget it. He was only 
     kidding?'

          KELOID
          (in only partially 
          mock despair)
     Oh, God. It's all gotten out of hand. 
     I can see it now: fifty enfranchised 
     Keloid's Cosmetic Surgery Clinics 
     flung across the face of North America 
     like Holiday Inns. Next thing you 
     know, Do-It-Yourself Facelift Kits.

          CYPHER
     I like it. We could call it... we 
     could call it Suture Self.
          (starts to scribble 
          madly)
     No, I'm serious. I like that. There's 
     got to be a way.

          ROXANNE
     All right, boys. I think we're getting 
     a bit silly...

The office intercom on the table chimes and the voice of 
Steve, an orderly, fills the room.

          STEVE (V.O.)
     Is Dr. Keloid there? It's urgent.

          KELOID
     Yeah, what is it, Steve?

          STEVE (V.O.)
     There's been a motorcycle accident a 
     few minutes down the highway here. 
     Looks like a couple of people have 
     been hurt. Should I take the van and 
     go get 'em?

          KELOID
     Yeah, sure.
          (short pause)
     Hey, wait a minute. Steve? You still 
     there?

          STEVE (V.O.)
     Yeah.

          KELOID
     Hang on till I get there, OK? I'm 
     coming with you. Meet you at the 
     garage.

          STEVE (V.O.)
     Roger.

The intercom chimes off as Keloid stands up to leave. Cypher 
throws his pen on the table.

          ROXANNE
          (exasperated)
     Oh, now, Dan. We've got a lot of 
     decisions to make...

          KELOID
          (leaving)
     You and Murray work it out, hon. 
     Just make the pill easy for me to 
     swallow, OK?

He closes the door behind him, leaving Cypher and Roxanne to 
their own devices.

          CYPHER
     Well, what do you think about facelift 
     kits, Roxy? I mean, they've got 
     abortion kits.

          ROXANNE
          (frustrated)
     Let's just forget that anybody ever 
     mentioned the idea, OK, Murray?

Cypher shrugs. It still sounds great to him.

EXT. CLINIC DRIVEWAY -- DAY

In the middle of a landscaped triangle of lawn stands a large 
light-box-style sign which reads KELOID CLINIC OF COSMETIC 
SURGERY. Along one side of the triangle runs a crushed-gravel 
driveway at the end of which is a long, low garage just behind 
the main building, which looks as though it might once have 
been a small stable.

One of the three doors of the garage slides up and a van 
peels rubber out of the garage, sliding a bit once it hits 
the gravel. The van is set up inside and out exactly like a 
standard big-city ambulance, but without any ambulance 
markings. Instead, sedate white lettering on the doors reads 
KELOID CLINIC, LTD.

EXT. FIELD -- DAY

Read lies crumpled at the base of the tree. The end of his 
right collarbone is sticking out at a bizarre angle and his 
right shoulder is hanging too low. Read has regained enough 
consciousness to feebly undo his helmet with his left hand.

Beyond him, clouds of oily black smoke curl skywards from 
the fallen Norton. Read can hardly focus his eyes on the 
figures running toward them from the camper at the edge of 
the field. He slips dreamily into unconsciousness.

INT. VAN -- DAY

The clinic van turns off a secondary road on to the two-lane 
highway and accelerates furiously, tossing its occupants 
around as it momentarily slews sideways.

In the back of the van are Steve, who is busily preparing 
stretchers and oxygen, and Dr. Keloid.

Keloid prepares several hypodermic syringes while expertly 
bracing himself against the motion of the van.

Steve finishes attaching a hose to a small cylinder of oxygen 
and turns the release valve to test the oxygen flow through 
the nose-piece.

          STEVE
     Well, we've got oxygen now, Dr. 
     Keloid.

Keloid watches the thin column of black smoke looming larger 
through the windshield of the van. He reaches for a small 
fire extinguisher affixed to the frame of the van and begins 
to undo the clamps holding it there.

          KELOID
     I think we're going to have to use 
     this before we get close enough for 
     the oxygen, Steve.

EXT. FIELD -- DAY

Rose has stopped moving under the flaming machine. The man 
from the camper, running and stumbling over the uneven ground, 
finally arrives, followed by his older son (who is about 
thirteen). The man tries vainly to smother the flames with 
his younger son's blanket, but the heat is too intense for 
him to get really close.

The man is almost in tears with horror and frustration. His 
son just stares wide-eyed.

EXT. EDGE OF FIELD -- DAY

The clinic van bounces to a halt by the edge of the field 
and the driver, the most junior of the clinic's four 
orderlies, jumps out and runs around to the back of the van.

The back doors swing open and Keloid jumps out with the fire 
extinguisher in one hand and a small leather bag in the other. 
He heads for the flames as the wife and her kid watch from 
the front seats of the camper. The wife sticks her head out 
of the window and points at the flames.

          WIFE
          (to Keloid)
     They're over there, Doctor! They 
     were speeding!

Keloid is soon followed by the two orderlies carrying a large 
wheeled stretcher, which they have hauled from the back of 
the van.

EXT. FIELD -- DAY

The man who was driving the camper is still making sporadic 
attempts to beat out the flames with the blanket when Keloid 
arrives and opens up the valve of the fire extinguisher. The 
white powdery foam covers everything in a few seconds, killing 
the flames easily.

          MAN
          (to Keloid)
     I tried to put it out. I couldn't 
     get near it.

Keloid kneels beside Rose. He takes a pair of scissors from 
his bag and cuts the helmet strap under her chin. He slips 
the helmet off her head with great care. Her long blonde 
hair falls into a pool around her face, which seems remarkably 
at peace and untouched: only a rectangle of black soot where 
her helmet's visor melted away and admitted smoke gives any 
indication of what she's gone through.

When the orderlies arrive, the man points out Read for them.

          MAN
     There's another one over there. I 
     saw him movin' around a minute ago.

          KELOID
          (to orderlies)
     Might as well go get him. We won't 
     be ready to move her for a few 
     minutes.

The orderlies trot off toward Read with their stretcher. The 
man watches them leave, then turns back to look at Rose. He 
shakes his head as Keloid gives her an injection.

          MAN
     Christ. I didn't know it was a girl. 
     Is she dead?

          KELOID
     This isn't embalming fluid I'm 
     shooting into her. See if you can 
     lift the machine off her. Use the 
     blanket around your hands. It's hot.

The man wraps the blanket around his hands and begins to 
half-pull, half-slide the Norton off Rose by the handlebars. 
The orderlies go by on their way to the van with Read 
unconscious on the stretcher.

As the bike slides away to reveal Rose's abdomen, the man 
recoils in horror.

          MAN
     My God.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD -- DAY

The clinic van speeds along the road toward the clinic.

INT. VAN -- DAY

Rose is on the stretcher with intravenous tubes in her arms, 
bottles hanging over her head, an oxygen mask over her mouth 
and nose, and several layers of blood-soaked bandages and 
surgical gauze over her abdomen. The senior orderly monitors 
the oxygen flow, the IV levels, and Rose's pulse, while Keloid 
speaks to someone at the clinic over the van's CB radio, 
which has a telephone-style speaker/ receiver.

Read sits jammed into a small seat behind the driver, his 
head back against the van wall, completely dazed. He is 
conscious enough to wince in pain with every bump the van 
hits, but he obviously doesn't know where he is or why he's 
there.

          KELOID
     Roxanne? Yeah, listen. We're going 
     to have to throw in everything we've 
     got. I know, but let me tell you 
     what we're looking at. The gas tank 
     exploded over the girl's abdomen and 
     I don't know what she's got left in 
     there. The man's got a broken hand, 
     separated shoulder, concussion, the 
     usual. We can send him to the General. 
     But it's definitely major surgery 
     for her, and right now. I know we're 
     not, but we've got no choice. I'd 
     say she's got a half hour to live 
     and it's three hours to the nearest 
     serious hospital. It's us or nobody. 
     Yeah. I hope I can remember too. 
     Well, they say it's like riding a 
     bicycle.

EXT. CLINIC DRIVEWAY -- DAY

The van stops in front of the clinic and the orderlies jump 
out. Keloid holds the bottles and the oxygen as the orderlies 
unload the stretcher and roll it up the front walk of the 
clinic, which is a spectacularly renovated old farmhouse -- 
all sandblasted auburn brick, pine, and cedar planking, white 
paint and Vista Vision windows.

A group composed of patients and staff cluster around the 
main doors of the clinic to watch as the stretcher approaches. 
Nobody seems to notice Read, who has been left sitting in 
the van.

INT. CLINIC ENTRANCE -- DAY

Lloyd Walsh holds open one of the main glass doors while a 
nurse opens the other one. The secretary -- receptionist 
abandons her phones and her sleek plastic desk/filing cabinet 
module to work her way through the group at the doors in 
order to take a look.

Walsh makes room for the secretary -- Sheila -- beside him.

Rose is wheeled through the doors. Her condition is so 
obviously serious and so different from the usual 'touch-up' 
jobs done at the Keloid Clinic, which has a carefully 
calculated country resort atmosphere about it, that everyone 
becomes completely silent as she enters.

          KELOID
          (to nurse at door)
     Get the guy in the van into 
     observation and check him out. But 
     take it easy -- concussion, separated 
     shoulder, broken hand. OK, Louise? 
     Maybe some Demerol when he becomes 
     lucid.

          LOUISE
     OK, Dr. Keloid.

Louise leaves the door once the stretcher has gone by and 
heads out to the van. Walsh lets go of his door and jogs 
after her.

Jackie, still wearing sunglasses, shakes her head as she 
watches the stretcher go off down the hall and turns to the 
middle-aged lady standing next to her.

          JACKIE
     What a waste. She doesn't even need 
     a nose job.

INT. CLINIC HALLWAY -- DAY

The orderlies wheel the stretcher down a hallway which was 
patently never meant to be used as a hospital corridor: Rose 
is getting a very rough ride. As they move along they pass 
various patients who react with shock and horror when they 
see Rose. The Keloid Clinic is usually more discreet about 
blood than a normal hospital.

          MAN
          (as Rose passes)
     Jesus wept! What's that all about?

          WOMAN
     Somebody said something about an 
     accident.

          MAN
          (repulsed)
     Couldn't they throw a sheet over it 
     or something? I'm starting to feel 
     like I'm in a hospital.

The fastidious man and his companion go through some doors 
which, according to an elegantly lettered sign on a wall, 
lead to a squash court.

The orderlies stop in front of another set of doors. Keloid 
hands one of them the bottles he has been holding as a second 
nurse, Rita, comes out to meet them. Rita is a very solid, 
square-bodied, fortyish lady.

          KELOID
     OK, boys. Take her into pre-op and 
     tell Dr. Karl to set her up for the 
     works.

INT. SURGICAL WASH-UP -- DAY

Keloid and Roxanne wash with disinfectant in preparation for 
Rose's operation, aided by a third orderly whom we have not 
seen before.

Roxanne is short, dark, intense, and ambitious beyond her 
present practice. She does not wear her thirty-seven years 
particularly well, so the age difference between her and her 
husband seems more theoretical than anything else. She is 
very particular about being called by her maiden name and is 
known as Dr. Rushton to all the clinic's patients. At the 
moment, Keloid and Roxanne are having a very controlled, low-
key argument which Roxanne tries to keep the orderly from 
hearing.

          ROXANNE
     I don't buy it, Dan.

          KELOID
     You haven't seen her.

          ROXANNE
     I don't have to see her. Neutral 
     field grafts have never been used 
     internally. We could end up with a 
     terminal cancer patient on our hands.

          KELOID
     Aw, c'mon. We can monitor, Roxy. 
     She's got nothing to lose. Literally. 
     She doesn't have enough small 
     intestine left to absorb nutrient. 
     If we just close her up she'll have 
     to be fed intravenously for the rest 
     of her life, which will be a short 
     and a dismal one. But if we graft 
     neutral field tissue cones into the 
     abdominal cavity, there's a chance 
     that they'll read her condition by 
     post-embryonic induction and develop 
     into a new set of intestines.

          ROXANNE
     Or run wild and make some very 
     creative malignant tumors. Dan, the 
     clinic doesn't need this. Let's play 
     it safe.

Keloid doesn't respond. He finishes snapping on his surgical 
gloves and turns to the scrub-nurse, who helps him on with 
his sterilized operating tunic.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM -- DAY

Read has regained full consciousness in the clinic's 
observation room and is watching Louise cut away his well-
worn leather motorcycle jacket with a pair of snub-nosed 
surgical scissors. She cuts her way up the right sleeve to 
the shoulder, then across the shoulder to the collar. She is 
then able to slip the jacket easily away from Read's right 
shoulder, which is still very obviously not where it should 
be. She now starts in on his Norton T-shirt, which is all he 
was wearing underneath his jacket.

          READ
     Oh, no. Not the T-shirt. Rose gave 
     me the T-shirt.

          LOUISE
     I think you'd find it pretty painful 
     trying to take if off the standard 
     way.

Read makes an attempt to slip his arm out of his T-shirt but 
immediately gives up, grimacing in pain.

          READ
     No, look. I think I can... Ow! Oh! 
     You're right. Cut the thing off. 
     I'll put it up on the wall of my 
     garage.

Louise continues snipping off the T-shirt.

          READ
     So when do I get to see Rose?

          LOUISE
     Not for a while.

          READ
     Why not?

Louise doesn't answer.

Read pulls away from Louise and tries to stand up. He can't 
keep his balance and falls back against the wall, banging 
his wrecked shoulder.

          READ
     I want to see her right now! Ow! Oh, 
     God. I didn't kill her, did I?

Louise reaches for a syringe of Demerol.

          LOUISE
     She's not dead.

          READ
     What is that stuff? I don't want you 
     to put me out.

          LOUISE
     It's just Demerol. It'll ease the 
     pain. All right?

Read lets Louise take his good arm. She swabs him down and 
sinks the needle in.

          READ
          (sarcastically)
     Sure. Wonderful. Anything to ease 
     the pain.

INT. OPERATING ROOM -- DAY

Keloid and Roxanne are well into their operation on Rose, 
assisted by a team of five which includes Dr. William Karl, 
the clinic's anesthetist. Keloid and Roxanne are in the 
process of cutting large squares of skin from Rose's thighs.

          KELOID
     Now, I know everyone here is familiar 
     with the standard techniques of skin 
     grafting, but what we're going to do 
     is a little out of the ordinary. 
     I'll explain it as we go. We're 
     removing full-thickness skin grafting 
     material from the patient's thighs 
     as per normal graft acquisition 
     procedure. However, before these 
     grafts are applied to the damaged 
     areas of the patient's breasts, 
     abdomen, and so on, they will be 
     treated so that they become 
     morphogenetically neutral. They are 
     then called neutral field grafts.

          KARL
     Can we treat the graft material here, 
     Dr. Keloid?

          KELOID
     No, Dr. Karl. The graft tissue will 
     be frozen and sent to the Sperling 
     Institute. We'll have to keep the 
     patient in an operation-ready state 
     until it comes back to us. That's 
     going to be a bit trying for all of 
     us, but it can't be helped.

As Keloid speaks, the sections of thigh skin are placed in 
spun aluminum cylinders of the same general type as those 
used in eye banks. The cylinders are then sealed and placed 
in a medical freezer.

          RITA
     I don't understand the functional 
     difference between neutral field and 
     normal graft tissue, Doctor.

          KELOID
     Well, when the thigh skin tissue is 
     treated, Nurse Benedetto, it'll lose 
     its specificity as both thigh tissue 
     and skin tissue. For example, if it 
     were grafted to a burned cheek, it 
     wouldn't just be thigh skin with the 
     color and texture of thigh skin -- 
     it would actually develop as facial 
     tissue. In other words, neutral field 
     tissue has the same ability to form 
     any part of the human body that the 
     tissue of a human embryo has.

          KARL
     Doctor, this patient has lost most 
     of her absorptive intestinal mucosa. 
     Could neutral field tissue reconstruct 
     an organ as complex as the small 
     intestine.

          KELOID
     Yes, Dr. Karl. I think that under 
     the right circumstances it could. 
     I've done it myself using lab animals 
     at the Sperling Institute.

Keloid and Roxanne exchange glances, then Keloid looks away.

          KELOID
     Let me add that there is always a 
     possibility that carcinomas will 
     form when neutral field grafts are 
     used internally. In this case, we're 
     using a radical plastic-surgery 
     technique to compensate for our lack 
     of heavy medical hardware. We're 
     doing it to save a life. It's the 
     only trick we've got.

EXT. KELOID CLINIC -- DAY

Wide shot of exterior front of the Keloid Clinic in late 
autumn.

                              SLOW DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. KELOID CLINIC -- ONE MONTH LATER -- DAY

Same shot as previous scene, one month later. Snow is on the 
ground and the trees are bare.

                              SLOW DISSOLVE TO:

INT. ROSE'S ROOM AT THE KELOID CLINIC -- DAY

Read stands over Rose's bed, which is a very well-disguised 
hospital bed (everything possible is done to keep the clinic 
from feeling like a hospital). Read's left hand is encased 
in a wire cage which supports all his fingers. He is watching 
Rose intently, who is still in a coma and is attached to a 
battery of intravenous bottles connected to her by clear 
vinyl tubes and IV needles. Read is particularly fascinated 
by Rose's eyes, which he can see moving around wildly behind 
her eyelids.

He bends close, then kisses her gently on her pale, dry lips.

INT. CLINIC HALLWAY -- DAY

Nurse Louise walks briskly down a hall toward Rose's room. 
On her way she passes Judy Glasberg clutching a pocket edition 
of The Life and Work of Sigmund Freud and strolling 
thoughtfully in the opposite direction.

          LOUISE
     Hi, Judy Glasberg. You back again?

          JUDY
     Daddy didn't think the new nose was 
     different enough, so I'm in for more 
     alterations. I keep telling him it 
     looks just like his, and he keeps 
     saying, 'That's why I want you to 
     change it.' I'm terrified to find 
     out what it all means.

They both laugh.

The two women part and go their separate ways. We follow 
Louise as she opens the door to Rose's room, which bears a 
printed sign saying: INTENSIVE CARE, QUALIFIED PERSONNEL 
ONLY.

INT. ROSE'S ROOM -- DAY

Louise enters the room in time to surprise Read in the act 
of pulling back the sheet covering Rose.

          LOUISE
     Didn't you see the sign on the door, 
     Mr Read? You're supposed to register 
     with me before you come in here.

          READ
     I saw it. I guess I consider myself 
     qualified.

Louise edges Read away from the bed and covers Rose up again. 
Her entire body is heavily bandaged, and almost every inch 
of exposed skin has an IV needle taped to it. Louise begins 
to moisten Rose's eyelids and lips with various gels.

          LOUISE
     What are you trying to do, give her 
     pneumonia?

          READ
     I'm trying to ease my guilt feelings 
     by telling myself that Rose is getting 
     better.

          LOUISE
          (softening)
     I see. Is it working?

          READ
     Is she getting better?

          LOUISE
     You've been here often enough in the 
     past two months to know as much as I 
     do.

          READ
     When do I get to see Dr. Keloid?

          LOUISE
     You never tell me in advance when 
     you're coming. How can I make an 
     appointment for you?

          READ
     I never know in advance when the 
     next wave of guilt will hit me. I 
     want to see him right now.

          LOUISE
     He's in a meeting.

          READ
     Tell him I forced you.

          LOUISE
          (leaving the room)
     All right. But please... no touching 
     until she's conscious.

          READ
     OK, Mom.

Louise makes a face and leaves.

INT. KELOID'S OFFICE -- DAY

Read sits across from Keloid's desk in Keloid's office, which 
seems more like a successful PR executive's office than a 
doctor's. While they talk, Keloid toys with Rose's file, not 
really ever looking at it: he is obviously very familiar 
with its contents, and also in a very distracted frame of 
mind.

          KELOID
     Well, as you've seen, Rose is still 
     in some kind of coma, sort of half 
     real coma, half normal deep sleep. 
     Could be weeks before she's lucid.

          READ
     You don't know for sure?

          KELOID
     No. Her body is still in a state of 
     total shock. She can't possibly be 
     moved to a city hospital yet. Her 
     grafts seem to be healing well. We've 
     been monitoring the internal grafts 
     electronically and there is definitely 
     new tissue growth happening in the 
     abdominal cavity. Whether this growth 
     will mature into functioning 
     intestinal mucosa we won't know for 
     quite a while.

          READ
     You mean if your grafts or whatever 
     they are don't work, she'll never 
     eat like a normal human being again. 
     She'll have to be fed intravenously.

          KELOID
     That's right. At the moment, she has 
     only enough small intestine to digest 
     the most basic nutrient material. 
     See -- the longer the small intestine, 
     the more complex the food that can 
     be broken down and absorbed by the 
     body as food. Cows have lots and 
     lots of intestines so they can eat 
     grass and other vegetable matter. We 
     have medium-length intestines, so we 
     can eat meat and a limited variety 
     of vegetable matter. Vampire bats -- 
     the real ones, I mean -- have short 
     intestines, so they eat whole blood, 
     which is very easy to break down and 
     assimilate. Your girlfriend's in the 
     same boat.

          READ
     What about her brain?

          KELOID
     Her helmet probably saved her from 
     brain damage, but until she's fully 
     conscious...

          READ
     You won't know that either.

          KELOID
          (throwing up his hands)
     Hart, what can I tell you? There's 
     no magic. Look, I've done my best. 
     You're welcome to come here and keep 
     your vigil by Rose's bedside any 
     time the mood takes you, but please 
     believe me, I will personally 
     telephone you the instant Rose shows 
     even the slightest signs of regaining 
     consciousness.

Read sighs, then shrugs with his good shoulder.

EXT. CLINIC DRIVEWAY -- DAY

Lloyd Walsh and Read stand in the driveway watching as two 
orderlies load the burned and smashed hulk of Read's Norton 
into the back of Murray Cypher's Ford station wagon.

          WALSH
     Jeez, when I saw that thing burning, 
     I never figured I'd be standing here 
     talking to you a month later. How's 
     your hand?

          READ
     They're taking the cage off this 
     afternoon. That's when I'll find 
     out. The pin stays in my shoulder 
     for another month, though. Doesn't 
     seem to bother me except when it 
     gets damp.

Cypher comes hurriedly out of the front door, putting on a 
suit jacket and stuffing papers into his attaché case at the 
same time. He walks over to Read and Walsh and opens the 
door of his car.

          CYPHER
          (to Walsh)
     Hi, Lloyd. How ya doin'?

          WALSH
     Great.

Cypher gets into his car, slams the door, and pops the 
passenger door open for Read.

          CYPHER
     C'mon, Hart. I got a pack of hungry 
     investors waiting for me.

Read gets into the station wagon as the orderlies slam the 
rear door shut on the Norton. Walsh waves goodbye to Read, 
who smiles weakly.

          CYPHER
     I hope you've got some friends who'll 
     help you unload that pile of junk. 
     I've got a bad back. What're you 
     going to do with it? Use it for an 
     ashtray?

He turns the ignition key and starts the station wagon.

          READ
     Giving it to a friend for parts. I 
     can hardly stand to look at it. Think 
     I'll get back into go-karts.

Cypher laughs, waves to Walsh, and pulls away from the 
driveway. Walsh smiles at them and turns back to the clinic, 
patting himself absently under the chin as he goes.

EXT. CLINIC -- DAY

Wide-angle shot of the front of the clinic as Walsh goes 
back inside.

                              SLOW DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. CLINIC -- NIGHT

Same shot as previous scene, but late at night. There are 
only one or two lights on inside.

INT. CLINIC HALL/NIGHT NURSE'S STATION -- NIGHT

The night nurse checks her watch at her station, which is 
little more than a desk, chair, and lamp placed at the end 
of a hall. It's time for her to make her rounds. She puts 
down her magazine -- People -- and walks down the hall. At 
the end of it, she disappears down a stairwell.

INT. ANOTHER HALL -- NIGHT

The night nurse walks past Rose's room, pausing only for a 
moment to glance in at Rose's sleeping form. She then 
continues on down the hall.

INT. ANOTHER HALL -- NIGHT

The night nurse walks past Lloyd Walsh's door. There is a 
PLEASE DO NOT DISTURB sign hanging from his doorknob. The 
nurse notices that Walsh's light is on and diffusing out 
through the crack under the door, but she continues on down 
the hall.

INT. WALSH'S ROOM -- NIGHT

Walsh is lying in bed reading The Life and Work of Sigmund 
Freud, which he has borrowed from Judy Glasberg. His room, 
like all the private rooms at the clinic, is furnished in 
the style of the plushest, most modern jet-set ski lodges. 
It's easy to understand why patients extend their stays beyond 
what is medically necessary, and just as obvious that the 
Keloid Clinic management makes no attempt to discourage this 
'home away from home' attitude toward the place.

Walsh can't get comfortable with the book, which he has just 
started to read. He checks his watch. It's 1.13 a.m. He's a 
little nervous about his operation tomorrow morning. He puts 
down his book, gets out of bed, puts on his bathrobe, slips 
into his slippers, and leaves his room to go for a stroll 
through the deserted clinic.

INT. CLINIC HALLWAY -- NIGHT

Hands in pockets, Walsh strolls through the clinic, past the 
lounge, the ping-pong table, the breakfast nook.

INT. ANOTHER HALLWAY -- NIGHT

Walsh rounds a corner that leads him past Rose's door, which 
still bears its INTENSIVE CARE sign. As he passes by her 
door, he hears a muffled scream followed by a series of moans 
and indistinct, angry shouts. Walsh opens her door without 
hesitation.

INT. ROSE'S ROOM -- NIGHT

By the light of the full moon and the hallway, Walsh can see 
Rose thrashing around violently in her bed, getting twisted 
up in her sheets and ripping out her IV needles. As he 
watches, one of her IV bottles, pulled off its stand by its 
feed tube, falls to the floor and smashes to pieces, spilling 
blood plasma everywhere.

Walsh now sees that the floor is littered with shredded bits 
and pieces of surgical gauze and bandages, which Rose has 
torn from her various wounds and grafts. The plasma begins 
to soak into the debris surrounding the bed. Her torso is 
still covered only by bandages, making her look like a mummy 
jerking to life in the half-light of her tomb.

Walsh rushes over to the bed and quickly lowers the safety 
railing. He then tries to hold Rose down by the shoulders to 
keep her from pulling out the last of her IV tubes. When he 
grabs her by the wrists, he notices that she is oozing blood 
from where the IV needles have been pulled out.

          WALSH
     Rosie, Rosie, sweetie, take it easy! 
     You need that juice, sweetie. It's 
     keeping you alive. Hey, easy, there. 
     Easy. That's it. That's a girl.

Under the pressure of Walsh's body, Rose begins to calm down. 
Her eyes, which have been open but staring and unseeing, now 
begin to fill with consciousness.

          ROSE
     Hart? What are you... what are you 
     doing, Hart? Are we all right? Are 
     we...

          WALSH
     I'm not Hart, Rosie. Hart's back in 
     Montreal waiting for you. I'm Lloyd. 
     I'm a friend of yours.

          ROSE
     Hart?

          WALSH
     Back in Montreal. Waiting for you. 
     He's fine. He's OK. I was just talking 
     to him this afternoon.

          ROSE
     Oh. I... I guess I was dreaming.

Walsh lets go of Rose's wrists.

          WALSH
     I don't think you were just dreaming. 
     You and Hart were in a really 
     spectacular motorcycle crash.

          ROSE
     A crash? Was there fire? Was there... 
     blood?

          WALSH
     Yeah. Plenty of both. You're bleeding 
     right now.
          (getting up)
     I'd better get Dr. Keloid.

Rose grabs Walsh by the arm and pulls him back down on the 
bed.

          ROSE
     No! Not yet. I'm all right. But I'm 
     freezing cold, and you're so warm. 
     Hold me.

          WALSH
     Look, I think I'd better...

          ROSE
     Please hold me. I'm dying of the 
     cold.

Rose puts her arms around Walsh, who hesitates for a moment, 
then puts his arms around her and hugs her for a moment.

          ROSE
     Oh, God, that feels so good.

Behind Walsh's back, Rose pulls the last remaining IV needle 
out of her left wrist.

          WALSH
          (a bit nervous)
     Ah, look... you don't even know where 
     you are, do you?

Rose pulls Walsh's face down to hers, then slips her arms 
under his and locks her hands behind his back.

          ROSE
     Sure I do. I'm here with you.

          WALSH
     Look, this is really weird. Are you 
     sure you know what you're... Ow!

Feeling a sudden sharp pain, Walsh tries to pull away. Rose 
won't let him get up.

          WALSH
     Hey, I think I... I think I cut myself 
     or something. You got something sharp 
     in there with you? Ow! Oh, that hurts!

He makes a huge effort to lift himself off the bed, but Rose 
hangs on to him and comes up with him. Blood is soaking 
through Walsh's bathrobe around the right armpit, like dark 
red sweat.

He is moaning and sobbing as he strains to get away.

Finally, Walsh collapses on top of Rose, quivering and 
whimpering. Rose sighs deeply and begins to stroke his head 
affectionately.

INT. MISS OWEN'S ROOM AT THE CLINIC -- EARLY MORNING

Miss Beatrice Owen, a tough-looking maiden lady in her 
fifties, sits on the edge of her bed pulling on a pair of 
white gloves. She is wearing an immaculate morning outfit 
which looks vaguely '40s and probably is. One of her hands 
has been twisted by arthritis and puts up quite a struggle 
before allowing itself to be encased in its glove. She then 
begins to use her teeth to pull on the other glove.

The second glove is only half-way on when Miss Owen hears a 
desperate scratching and bumping at her door. She stops what 
she's doing.

          MISS OWEN
     Yes?
          (pause)
     Who is it?

After a pause comes more scratching, followed by the sound 
of a hand feebly slapping on the door. With her second glove 
still only half on, Miss Owen gets up, goes to the door, and 
opens it.

The instant the door is opened, a ghastly pale Lloyd Walsh 
slumps heavily across Miss Owen's shoulders. The force drives 
her back several steps and she screams with fear.

          MISS OWEN
     Oh, God save us!

          WALSH
     I'm sick. I'm sick. Help me.

When she realizes she's not being attacked, Miss Owen steps 
back from Walsh, but, unsupported, he starts to fall to the 
floor. Miss Owen slips her hands up under his arms and guides 
him unsteadily to the bed.

          MISS OWEN
     Mr Walsh! What on earth has happened 
     to you?

Miss Owen sits Walsh on the bed, where he crumples into an 
awkward lying position. When she withdraws her hands from 
under his arms, Miss Owen finds that her right glove is 
soaking through with very watery blood.

          WALSH
     I don't know. I can't remember a 
     thing.

INT. EXAMINATION ROOM -- MORNING

Keloid and Louise examine Walsh, who lies half-naked on his 
left side, his right arm stretched out over his head to expose 
a deep, round, and still-bleeding puncture in his right 
armpit.

Like everything else at the clinic, the examination room has 
been designed and furnished with luxury and style in mind as 
much as pure function. Even the cantilevered examination 
light which Keloid is playing on Walsh's wound is color-
coordinated with the drapes, the chairs, the coat-rack, and 
the enamel finish of the examination table itself.

          KELOID
     Were you sleepwalking? Could you 
     have fallen against something outside 
     and then come back in without waking 
     up?

          WALSH
          (voice still shaky)
     I doubt it. Never done anything like 
     that before.

          KELOID
          (to Louise)
     Get me some stuffing, maybe a sponge 
     or two as well. This wound isn't 
     clotting at all. I think we're going 
     to have to shoot in some coagulants 
     to get a scab to form.

          LOUISE
     Right away.

She leaves, closing the door behind her. Keloid takes a closer 
look at the wound through a large, illuminated magnifying 
glass.

          KELOID
     From what I can see, it's a very, 
     very clean and precise wound. You 
     haven't leaned on any picket fences, 
     have you? Kind with those little 
     spearheads?

          WALSH
          (unable to respond to 
          Keloid's attempt at 
          humor)
     No.

Keloid grunts, takes out a tongue depressor, and begins to 
probe Walsh's wound with it.

          KELOID
     Does this hurt?

          WALSH
     Can't feel a thing.

          KELOID
          (surprised)
     You can't?

          WALSH
     My whole right side has no feeling 
     in it. Just this aching kind of 
     tingling.

          KELOID
     Hm.

Louise comes in carrying wads of surgical gauze, sponges, 
etc. She puts them down and takes Keloid aside.

          LOUISE
     Dr Keloid? Kenny Kwong would like to 
     see you.

          KELOID
     Right now?

          LOUISE
     He says it's very important. He's 
     waiting in the hall.

          KELOID
          (confidentially)
     OK. Listen... our friend here may 
     have had a stroke. I think the 
     General's the best place for him. 
     But before you plug him up I want 10 
     cc of blood drawn directly from that 
     wound for tests. Then get Steve to 
     drive him into the city in the 
     ambulance. Tell him to take lots of 
     plasma with him. We're going to have 
     to forget about the coagulants until 
     the General has a chance to do an 
     ECG on him.

          LOUISE
     Will do, Doctor.

Keloid leaves.

INT. HALLWAY -- DAY

Keloid steps out into the hall and joins Kenny Kwong, the 
clinic's senior orderly, a concerned-looking, graying Chinese 
man of about fifty-five.

          KWONG
     Can you come with me, please, Dr. 
     Keloid?

          KELOID
     Sure, Kenny. What's up?

They begin to walk briskly down the hall, Kenny leading.

          KWONG
     You told me to check around the 
     grounds to see if I could find out 
     how Mr. Walsh got hurt?

Keloid nods.

          KWONG
     I couldn't find nothing outside. No 
     blood, nothing. Then Nurse Rita call 
     me. She find something. She tell me 
     go get Dr. Keloid. You see it, then 
     you tell us what happened.

They round the corner taking them into the hallway that goes 
past Rose's room. Kenny walks up to Rose's door and knocks 
sharply.

          KWONG
     Nurse Rita waiting for you in here.

After a short pause, Rita opens the door and ushers them 
inside, closing the door behind them.

INT. ROSE'S ROOM -- DAY

Once inside the door, Keloid is shocked at the state of Rose's 
room. It is basically as we last saw it, except that Rita 
has reattached Rose, who seems to be in a coma once again, 
to her IV bottles.

The area of the wall next to the doorhandle side of the door 
is smeared with bloody handprints -- Walsh apparently used 
the doorknob to pull himself to his feet, then supported 
himself by holding on to the wall and door moulding.

Rita leads Keloid over to the bed, while Kwong hangs back to 
watch that nobody enters inadvertently.

          RITA
     Watch your feet, Doctor. The police 
     will probably want every little piece 
     of glass and strip of gauze exactly 
     the way we found it.

Keloid finds a place to stand next to the bed, checks Rose's 
eyes, then her pulse.

          KELOID
     Why do you think the police would be 
     interested in this, Rita?

          RITA
     Why, it's perfectly obvious that 
     that Walsh fellow attempted to molest 
     the poor girl while she was still in 
     a coma. I've seen things like that 
     happen before. Maybe he was drunk.

          KELOID
          (drawing back the 
          sheet)
     Hm. Her grafts have taken amazing 
     well. Probably won't even have to 
     rebandage. Hm. I can't even see any 
     scar tissue.

He lifts Rose's left arm and presses around her armpit.

          KELOID
     Wow. I'll have to have a closer look 
     at that.

          RITA
     Rejection problems?

Keloid lowers her arm and covers her with the sheet again.

          KELOID
          (standing up)
     Don't think so. Seems to be an extreme 
     swelling of the lymph nodes under 
     the arm. Could just be a local 
     infection that's under attack, but 
     it's quite a bump. And there's some 
     kind of lesion there. Doesn't seen 
     to be gangrenous, but...

He walks thoughtfully toward the door. Kwong stands waiting.

          KWONG
     Want me to clean up the mess now, 
     Doctor?

          KELOID
          (snapping out of his 
          train of thought)
     What? Oh, yes. But save all the pieces 
     and scrape some of the dried blood 
     on to a slide. Maybe we'll find 
     something out.

          RITA
     But Dr. Keloid... Mr. Walsh, he may 
     well be...

          KELOID
          (turning to Rita)
     Rita, Lloyd Walsh wouldn't do 
     something like that. He just wouldn't. 
     And none of this explains how he got 
     his wound. I think a quiet, thorough, 
     and very private investigation is in 
     order. Don't you?

Rita lowers her eyes.

EXT. CLINIC DRIVEWAY -- NIGHT

Wide-angle shot of the clinic in the dead of night. The moon 
is full.

INT. ROSE'S ROOM -- NIGHT

In the darkness of her room, Rose's eyes are open and staring. 
She begins to pull the IV needles out of her wrists and 
ankles.

INT. WHIRLPOOL ROOM -- NIGHT

In the whirlpool room, which contains three full-size 
whirlpool baths, a bar, and a lounge, Judy Glasberg is taking 
a midnight whirlpool bath to calm herself down. The room is 
deserted except for Judy, but she seems to have no trouble 
adjusting the controls of the bath to get it just right.

As Judy plays with the temperature controls, the door behind 
her opens and someone enters, closing the door behind her. 
Judy looks up, startled. Rose stands at the door in her fresh 
clinic gown. For some reason, Judy suddenly feels vulnerable 
in her skimpy bikini.

          JUDY
     Rose? Is that you? I thought everyone 
     was asleep. They told me you were 
     still in a coma.

          ROSE
          (approaching the edge 
          of the bath)
     Oh, no. I'm doing much better now, 
     thank you.

She seems to be completely normal, and as childlike as ever 
save for the hollows under her eyes. Judy positions her body 
so that her nakedness is hidden by the swirling bubbles of 
the whirlpool.

          JUDY
     It... it's really weird to meet you 
     this way. I mean, I've never really 
     talked to you before. But I sort of 
     feel I know you, you've been around 
     here for so long. And I saw them 
     bring you in right after the accident.

          ROSE
     Do you mind if I get in with you? 
     I've been lying in bed for such a 
     long time, my body aches all over.

          JUDY
     Ah, well, I... does anybody know 
     you're here? I mean, does Dr. Keloid 
     know you... you've regained 
     consciousness?

Rose climbs into the bath with Judy, gown and all.

          ROSE
     I don't think so. Everybody seemed 
     to be asleep. It was a bit spooky 
     waking up and finding myself all 
     alone. I'm so glad I ran into you.
          (with surprise)
     Hey, know what? I think I can feel 
     the warmth of your body radiating 
     out to me through the water. I've 
     never felt anything like that before.

Judy starts to grope for her towel by the side of the pool.

          JUDY
     I think I'd better get out now. I'm 
     getting all wrinkly.

Rose floats over to Judy and takes her by the arm, interfering 
with Judy's attempt to get her towel.

          ROSE
     Oh, no. Not yet. You haven't even 
     told me your name.

          JUDY
     Judy Glasberg. Nice to meet you.

Rose slips her arms up under Judy's arms and hugs her tightly.

          ROSE
     Mm. It's nice to meet you too.

Judy tries to gently disengage herself from Rose's embrace.

          JUDY
     Oh, now, c'mon. You're embarrassing 
     me. Let me put some clothes on and 
     we'll have a few drinks or something, 
     OK?

When she realizes that Rose isn't going to let her go, Judy 
starts to struggle more seriously.

          JUDY
     Let me go, please! I want to get 
     dressed. Listen, to tell you the 
     truth, I think there's still something 
     wrong with you. I think you ought to 
     let... Ow! Oh! Something's cutting 
     me! Oh! It hurts!

She starts to thrash about madly in the water, still locked 
in Rose's embrace. They dip under the water, then come up 
again, Judy gasping for air. Rose lets her move wherever she 
wants, but keeps her arms locked about Judy, her hands now 
digging into Judy's shoulders from behind.

In tight close-up we see something joining the two bodies 
under the arms, from Rose's left to Judy's right. Even closer, 
we see something fleshy slipping in and out of some kind of 
sheath, barbs cutting through flesh, blood beginning to draw 
along a fleshy translucent tube. From small glands at the 
base of the tube, dark green fluid, almost black, begins to 
flow into the blood drawn up the tube. The mixture of blood 
and green fluid pumps back and forth in the tube.

Judy is now moaning in spasms, her head arched back as far 
away from Rose as possible, her hair floating in the water 
behind her and forming spirals in the whirlpool.

Rose holds on to Judy for dear life, her eyes closed in 
ecstasy, her cheeks unnaturally flushed. She doesn't notice 
that Judy's head is beginning to slip beneath the surface of 
the water. Judy's body is wracked by one final spasm, then 
she relaxes completely, her head going under completely. The 
last bubbles of air from her lungs mix with the bubbles spewed 
out by the whirlpool oxygenator. After a few moments, Rose 
releases Judy. We see a close-up of the translucent fleshy 
tube, now empty of blood, sliding back into its sheath.

It is only after she has backed away and taken several soul-
deep breaths that Rose notices Judy's face is two inches 
below the surface of the water, the tip of her nose almost 
breaking through to the air but not quite. Rose frantically 
grabs Judy by the hair and pulls her out of the water. Judy 
isn't breathing.

Rose manages to drag Judy to the edge of the pool, clambers 
out on to the side, then pulls Judy out on to the pool siding 
with her, Judy trailing a thin trickle of blood in the water 
behind her.

Rose holds Judy's mouth open and tries to revive her using 
mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, but it's no good. Judy is dead. 
Rose shakes her head and starts to cry.

          ROSE
     Oh, no! No!

Rose shakes Judy's corpse hysterically, then collapses across 
it, sobbing. After a moment, she gets up, visibly fighting 
for control. She sets her jaw and begins to drag Judy's body 
out of the whirlpool room.

INT. READ'S GARAGE IN MONTREAL -- NIGHT

In the ramshackle garage behind the small house he has rented 
in Montreal, Hart Read has finally gotten around to trying 
to put his demolished Norton back together again. The engine 
has been removed from its frame and sits before him on a 
metal-topped work table, and Read is in the process of 
completely dismantling it. Small cardboard cartons of various 
sizes sit on the table, waiting to receive individual pieces 
of the engine.

The radio hung above the table is tuned to an FM rock station 
which is on full blast, even though it is about 1 a.m.

INT. READ'S KITCHEN -- NIGHT

In Read's kitchen, the telephone is ringing, but Read has no 
chance of hearing it. Next to the phone, pinned to a cork 
message board with colored plastic drafting pins, are several 
photos of Read and Rose enjoying happier times.

INT. CLINIC LOUNGE -- NIGHT

Rose listens to the phone ring at Read's from the telephone 
in the deserted main lounge. Her hair is wet and matted and 
she is shivering uncontrollably. She lets it ring, huddling 
in her chair.

INT. OBSERVATION WARD AT GENERAL -- NIGHT

Lloyd Walsh is in the process of pulling on his pants in the 
observation ward of the General, which he shares with a 
thirtyish traffic-accident victim. Walsh's Lufthansa flight 
bag is already packed and ready to go, sitting on his bed in 
the shadow of an IV blood plasma bottle.

          VICTIM
     Hey, you can't leave yet, Lloyd. 
     They haven't figured out how come 
     you're bleeding all over the place.

          WALSH
     Aw, it's slowed down to a trickle. 
     No problem.

          VICTIM
     How's your arm?

          WALSH
     It's fine.

He picks up his bag and opens the door without hesitation.

          VICTIM
     If the night nurse comes around, 
     I'll tell her you're in the can, 
     how's that?

          WALSH
     Terrific. Take care of yourself.

He leaves, closing the door behind him.

INT. CORRIDOR AT GENERAL -- NIGHT

Walsh walks briskly down a corridor which leads to the main 
entrance of the Montreal General Hospital, flight bag in 
hand. Nobody stops him.

EXT. GENERAL ENTRANCE -- NIGHT

Walsh leaves the General and walks around the circular 
driveway to the street, where he is just in time to pick up 
a cab being paid off by a night orderly arriving for work.

Walsh gets in the cab and it pulls away from the curb.

INT. CAB -- NIGHT

Walsh leans his head back against the back seat as the cab 
pulls away. He rolls his head from side to side, as though 
trying to shake off a headache.

EXT. MONTREAL STREETS -- NIGHT

The cab moves through the streets of Montreal and enters a 
ramp leading eventually to the Decarie Expressway. The cab 
accelerates to the speed limit.

INT. CAB -- NIGHT

The nasal, wailing voice of a popular singer blares from all 
four speakers in the cab. Walsh is now sitting quite still 
in the back seat, head resting against the seat back.

          CAB DRIVER
     Hey, Mister, you wanna sleep? I can 
     turn the radio off. It's a long way 
     to Camelford.

Walsh doesn't answer. The driver looks in his rear-view 
mirror. Walsh is slumped in the shadows of the back-seat 
area.

          CAB DRIVER
     Hey, Mister. You want me to turn the 
     radio off? Or maybe if you want I 
     can turn off the back speakers and 
     just leave on the front ones...

He turns around in his seat to look at Walsh. His words die 
on his lips. Walsh is staring at him with eyes that have 
completely clouded over so that the whites of his eyes are 
indistinguishable from the irises and pupils. Dark green 
foam is drooling from the corners of Walsh's mouth.

The cab driver doesn't have a chance to react any further 
before Walsh attacks him viciously, grabbing him by the 
shoulders and biting the cab driver on the cheek.

EXT. EXPRESSWAY -- NIGHT

The cab carrying Walsh veers crazily across three lanes of 
the nearly deserted expressway.

INT. CAB -- NIGHT

The cab driver tries madly to pull himself around in his 
seat so that he can see where he's going, screaming in pain 
all the while. With one tremendous jerk he frees his face 
from Walsh's locked jaws.

EXT. EXPRESSWAY -- NIGHT

The cab finally slews completely out of control, smashes 
into the low concrete railing lining the expressway, 
cartwheels over the railing, and falls on to the expressway 
ramp some twenty feet below, where it is rammed by an immense 
diesel truck delivering furniture to a sub-urban warehouse.

The cab is pushed fifty yards along the rampway, shedding 
pieces of bodywork and glass all the way, before the truck 
manages to stop.

INT. THE KELOIDS' BEDROOM AT THE CLINIC -- NIGHT

The telephone on the night table beside the Keloids' double 
bed starts to ring. Dan Keloid rolls over, fumbles for the 
receiver, and finally gets it off the hook and up to his 
ear. Roxanne stirs beside him in bed.

          KELOID
     Yeah. Yeah. No. No, you're kidding. 
     Dead? Yeah. No, I would have 
     absolutely no objections to an 
     autopsy. It's definitely indicated. 
     No, I've got nothing to add to my 
     telephoned report. We never came up 
     with anything else. Yeah. Right. OK. 
     'Bye.

He hangs up the phone in a state of drowsy excitement. Roxanne 
rolls over and puts her arm around him. Keloid picks up his 
wrist-watch to check the time. It's 3.07 a. m.

          ROXANNE
     What is it, Dan?

          KELOID
     Lloyd Walsh is dead.

Roxanne starts to snap out of her sleep.

          ROXANNE
     He's what?

          KELOID
     He left the General about an hour 
     ago. Told another patient he felt 
     all right. He took a cab and the cab 
     crashed on a highway. Both occupants 
     dead.

          ROXANNE
     Oh, God. Poor Lloyd. But you said 
     something about an autopsy? Was the 
     cab driver drinking?

          KELOID
     No, it's Walsh. They're not happy 
     with his corpse.
          (baffled)
     Something about the eyes... I'm going 
     to have to go over Walsh's file again. 
     It just doesn't add up.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD -- NIGHT (APPROX. 4 A.M.)

By the light of a full moon, Rose walks purposefully down a 
dirt country road, a borrowed windbreaker pulled tightly 
around her over her clinic gown and hospital slippers starting 
to come apart on her feet. She is determined to get as far 
away from the clinic as she can by morning light.

                                   DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD -- NIGHT (APPROX. 4 A.M.)

Rose finds herself walking beside a moonlit field with a 
ramshackle barn at one end. She pauses beside the barn for a 
moment, then slips under the fence surrounding the field and 
makes her way gingerly across the muddy barnyard toward the 
door of the barn. The house nearest the barn is dark. Rose 
gently edges open the door of the barn.

INT. BARN -- NIGHT

Once inside the barn, Rose feels around for a light switch. 
She finds it without much trouble and flicks it on. The barn 
is low and full of cobwebs, and houses only two solemn cows 
and a scraggly chicken.

Rose heads for the nest of straw that the two cows have made, 
and gradually snuggles her way in between them.

She starts to stroke the side of one of the cows, getting 
the animal accustomed to her touch, at the same time carefully 
slipping out of her windbreaker. She then raises her left 
arm and presses her left armpit flat against the cow's side. 
After a pause, she gives a short, sharp push with her left 
side, as though she's pushing something into the cow with 
her body. The cow responds by lifting up its head and turning 
to look at her. Satisfied that nothing too threatening is 
happening, it turns back and lowers its head again.

Rose stretches out over the cow in ecstasy. Her eyes are 
closed. Blood begins to flow in a rapid, one-way stream from 
the cow into Rose.

She is breathing rapidly and heavily. Suddenly, she pulls 
away from the cow, giving us a chance to see a flash of some 
kind of elongated, tube-like organ retracting under her left 
arm, dripping blood from its tip. As Rose lurches to her 
feet, we can see a small, deep wound leaking blood and green, 
bile-like fluid in the cow's side where Rose's armpit had 
been pressed. The cows stir in reaction to Rose's violent 
movement.

She staggers away from the cows, dizzy and nauseous. She 
manages to reach the stalls, which she leans on for support, 
before she begins to vomit.

Suddenly, the door bangs open and a drunken old farmer 
stumbles into the barn, a whisky bottle in his hand.

          FARMER
     All right, you! Hold it right there!
          (spotting Rose)
     Oh. Whatta we got here? Hello, sweet 
     honey pie. What're ya drinkin'? You 
     come in to get outta the cold?

He waves the bottle at Rose as he approaches her, then puts 
his arm around her so that the bottle rests on her chest.

          FARMER
     I got something ya can take a drink 
     off of, an'it ain't no whisky, 
     neither.

He laughs coarsely and kisses Rose on the neck. When she 
fails to resist him, he drops his nearly empty whisky bottle 
and starts to nuzzle her collarbone. Rose wearily slips her 
hand up behind the farmer's head and pulls it down toward 
her left armpit.

          FARMER
          (surprised)
     Hey, that's real nice, honey pie. 
     You like me, don't ya? I kin tell ya 
     do.

The farmer is slobbering happily around Rose's shoulder when 
she suddenly grabs his head by the hair with both her hands 
and pulls him viciously down on the cutting points of her 
bloodsucking organ.

The farmer screams in agony. Rose holds the farmer's head 
down until he stops screaming and starts breathing heavily, 
spasmodically. Then she lets him go.

The farmer straightens up. He is holding his hand over his 
right eye. Rose is terrified at what she's done. With a 
horrified sob, she backs away, then turns and runs, stumbling, 
out the door, leaving the farmer to stand swaying in a semi-
anesthetized stupor in the middle of the barn.

INT. READ'S KITCHEN -- NIGHT (5.14 A.M.)

Read has fallen asleep at his kitchen table while working on 
the engine of his Norton. The partially dismantled engine 
sits on a section of newspaper on the kitchen table next to 
a half-empty cup of coffee and an open, grease-smeared Norton 
Owner's Manual.

He is awakened out of his deep sleep by the sound of the 
kitchen phone ringing. Read jumps up, still half asleep, 
almost knocking over his chair in the process. It takes him 
a second or two to realize that he is in fact at home.

Read grabs for the phone, somehow terrified that the person 
on the other end will hang up before he answers.

          READ
     Hello?
          (suddenly very excited)
     Rose? Is it really you? How come 
     you're... I mean, the last time I 
     saw you... Oh, God. Rose, are you 
     all right?

INT. CLINIC LOUNGE -- NIGHT

In the main lounge of the clinic, Rose kneels beside the 
table on which the lounge phone rests, cradling the receiver 
in her hands. She is covered with blood, her gown has been 
ripped, and she is close to hysteria. Her feet are covered 
with dirt and she's tracked mud inside, marking her trail 
from the clinic's back door clearly.

          ROSE
     Hart? Oh, Hart.
          (sobbing)
     No, no, I'm not all right. I'm in 
     terrible trouble. I want you to help 
     me.

          READ (V.O.)
     What are you talking about? Rosie, 
     calm down, I can hardly understand 
     what you're saying.

          ROSE
     Hart, can you hear me?

          READ (V.O.)
     I can hear you, Rosie.

          ROSE
     Hart, you've got to come and get me. 
     You've got to come and get me as 
     fast as you can.

She suddenly becomes aware of someone else's presence in the 
lounge. She turns with a start. Rita, who is acting as night 
nurse, is standing right behind her, a shocked and unbelieving 
look on her face.

INT. READ'S KITCHEN -- NIGHT

          READ
     Rose, don't panic. Whatever's wrong 
     I'll be able to help you, understand? 
     Now, I can be at the clinic first 
     thing in the morning, OK? I'll get a 
     lift from somebody, I'll take a cab 
     if I have to. Rose? You still there?

          ROSE (V.O.)
          (strangely subdued)
     I'm still here.

          READ
     Rose, tell me what's wrong. Please. 
     I'm going crazy here.

          ROSE (V.O.)
     I can't talk now. See you soon.

Read is suddenly left holding a receiver humming a dial tone. 
He waits only a second or two before he starts to look 
frantically for the phone number of the Keloid Clinic in the 
small book hanging from a nail by the phone.

          READ
          (thumbing through the 
          book)
     Christ! What was the number of that 
     place?

INT. KELOID'S OFFICE -- NIGHT (5.30 A.M.)

Keloid is sitting at his desk in his bath-robe and slippers, 
looking into a microscope holding a dry slide of Walsh's 
blood. There is a knock at his door. Keloid looks up as Rita 
enters, closing the door behind her.

          KELOID
     Hi, Rita. I couldn't sleep. I've 
     been trying to figure out what there 
     could possibly be in Walsh's blood 
     that would cause...

          RITA
          (interrupting with 
          quiet urgency)
     Doctor, I think you'd better come 
     with me.

INT. CYPHER'S LIVING ROOM IN DORVAL -- NIGHT

A groggy Murray Cypher sits on a sofa in front of the TV set 
in his living room, trying to get his four-month-old son to 
drink his 6 a.m. bottle. The images of the early morning 
show -- the sound has been turned off -- seem to attract the 
baby more than the bottle does.

To Cypher's complete surprise, the telephone starts to ring.

          CYPHER
     Oh, no. I just don't believe it. OK, 
     Jeffrey -- you're on your own for a 
     second.

Cypher tries to prop the kid up between two cushions, but he 
starts to cry the instant Cypher lets go of him. Cypher picks 
him up and takes him over to the phone, which is on a shelf 
at the other end of the room.

          CYPHER
     No? You want in on the action? OK, 
     let's go.

Cypher picks up the phone.

          CYPHER
          (annoyed)
     What could you possibly want at this 
     hour of the morning?

INT. READ'S KITCHEN -- NIGHT

          READ
     Murray, it's Hart Read. I hate like 
     hell having to bother you like this, 
     but I'm going out of my skull. It 
     has to do with the clinic.

          CYPHER (V.O.)
     Yeah, OK. I was up anyway with the 
     baby. So what gives?

          READ
     I got this phone call from the clinic. 
     From Rose.

          CYPHER (V.O.)
     From who?

          READ
     From Rose. She's supposed to be in a 
     coma. Keloid promised me he'd tell 
     me the second she showed signs of 
     consciousness and here I am getting 
     a call from her at five in the 
     morning.

INT. CYPHER'S LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

Cypher is having trouble juggling the phone, the bottle, and 
his baby, who is gumming the receiver and drooling into the 
little holes at the speaking end.

          CYPHER
     That is pretty weird. But maybe she 
     came to in the middle of the night 
     and didn't know where she was. Those 
     things can happen. Jeffrey, don't 
     eat the phone. You'll get indigestion.

INT. READ'S KITCHEN -- NIGHT

          READ
     But she said she was in trouble, 
     Murray. She wants me to come and get 
     her right now.

          CYPHER (V.O.)
     Look, Hart -- she's confused and 
     she's scared. Did you phone the clinic 
     back and try to talk to Danny?

          READ
     I did. I got to talk to a tape 
     recorder. I left a message.

INT. CYPHER'S LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

          CYPHER
     OK. I'll phone Danny right now at 
     his private number, and I'll make 
     sure that he knows that your Rosie 
     is making phone calls in the middle 
     of the night. Then I'll pick you up 
     at your place in an hour and we'll 
     go up to the clinic together. How's 
     that grab ya?

          READ (V.O.)
     Great. Phone me right back if there's 
     a problem.

          CYPHER
     Absolutely.

INT. READ'S KITCHEN -- NIGHT

          READ
     OK, Murray. Thanks a hell of a lot.

Read hangs up the phone. He takes a close look at one of the 
pictures of himself and Rose on the Norton.

INT. ROSE'S ROOM AT THE CLINIC -- NIGHT

Rose sits quietly on the edge of her bed, her feet dangling 
over the side not quite touching the floor. She keeps her 
head down and does not look at Keloid, who is conferring 
with Rita at the door. Rita has given Rose a new gown and 
cleaned her up a bit for Keloid.

Rita leaves and Keloid closes the door behind her. He turns 
to Rose and approaches the bed, tapping his stethoscope 
against the palm of one hand. He doesn't say anything until 
he sits down on the bed beside her.

          KELOID
     Rose... I'm Dr. Keloid. Dan Keloid. 
     I'm here to help you, sweetheart.

Rose lifts her head to look at Keloid for the first time. 
Tears are streaming down her cheeks. She throws her arms 
around Keloid and begins to sob on his shoulder. Keloid hugs 
her gently and pets her on the head as though she were a 
child.

After one or two moments, Keloid detaches himself from Rose 
and lies her back down on her bed.

          KELOID
     Rose, we won't talk about anything 
     right now except how you're feeling, 
     OK?

Rose nods, still snuffling slightly.

          KELOID
     Good. First thing I want to do is to 
     check out some of the skin grafts we 
     did for you. Now, could you please 
     just slip your arm out of your left 
     shoulder strap and raise your arm 
     over your head?

Instead of doing as Keloid asks, Rose puts her hands over 
her face and shakes her head. Keloid is baffled.

          KELOID
     What's the matter, Rose? Are you in 
     pain? Talk to me, Rose. It's the 
     only way I can understand what's 
     bothering you.

          ROSE
          (from behind her hands)
     I'm hideous, Doctor. I'm crazy and 
     I'm a monster.

          KELOID
     C'mon, Rose. There's just about 
     nothing we can't fix if we know what's 
     wrong. Now, I don't want any more 
     games. Do what I tell you.

Rose reluctantly takes her hands away from her face and slips 
her left arm out of its shoulder strap. A pause, and then 
she raises her left arm above her head on the pillow.

Keloid can barely suppress his surprise at what he sees. 
Nestled in Rose's left armpit is a fleshy, tubular lump with 
an opening at the upper end of it. Keloid reaches over and 
presses it gently with his fingertips.

          KELOID
     Does that hurt?

          ROSE
     No. It doesn't hurt.

Keloid takes a closer look at the fleshy pouch. The opening 
at the upper end seems to be surrounded by sphincter muscles. 
Keloid gently spreads the opening with his thumb. Deep within 
the pouch, something an angry pink color, something 
glistening, seems to be pulsating. When he removes his thumb, 
the muscles pull the opening closed again the way a drawstring 
closes a bag.

Keloid sits up on the side of the bed again, trying to regain 
his composure.

          KELOID
          (after a pause)
     As far as I can tell now, it'll take 
     just a very minor operation to remove 
     that growth from under your arm. It 
     may be some kind of external 
     intestinal tissue. The neutral field 
     tissue graft we did has been trying 
     to find a way to get food that you 
     can digest into your body. I was 
     hoping it would do that by providing 
     you with a regular set of small 
     intestines but it seems to have had 
     something different in mind.

Rose shakes her head. A baffled expression comes over Keloid's 
face.

          KELOID
     How long have you been conscious, 
     Rose? Do you know?

          ROSE
     Couple of days.

          KELOID
     Do you feel weak?

          ROSE
     I feel strong. I feel very strong.

          KELOID
     Rita tells me you refused to let her 
     attach you to your intravenous 
     nutrient bottles. Why?

          ROSE
     I don't need them. They make me feel 
     sick.

          KELOID
     I don't understand. They've got to 
     be your only source of food.

          ROSE
     They're not. They haven't been for a 
     couple of days. Not since that man...

          KELOID
     Man? What are you talking about?

          ROSE
     I'll show you.

Rose puts her right hand behind Keloid's head and draws it 
slowly down toward her left armpit. When Keloid's head is 
about a foot and a half away from the organ, Rose grabs Keloid 
by the hair with both hands and strains upwards with her 
body.

Keloid emits a low, gurgling scream which soon cuts off with 
the suddenness of a thrown switch. Exhausted of energy, Keloid 
collapses across Rose, who begins to rock him gently from 
side to side as she pumps the blood from his body.

EXT. KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN DEPOT -- MORNING (6.45 A.M.)

A battered old Ford pick-up truck pulls into the parking lot 
of a Colonel Sanders Kentucky Fried Chicken depot beside the 
two-lane highway leading to the Keloid Clinic. The door of 
the truck opens and a vaguely familiar mangy dog jumps out: 
it belongs to the farmer who was Rose's third victim.

INT. FRIED CHICKEN DEPOT -- MORNING

The farmer enters the take-out depot, which is deserted except 
for staff and one lone trucker. The farmer is wearing a pair 
of crooked and cracked sunglasses. He is not very steady on 
his feet. His dog watches with concern through the glass 
door.

          FARMER
          (to counter girl)
     One bucket of your best for me and 
     my dog there.

          COUNTER GIRL
     Yes, sir.

The counter girl conveys the order through the window into 
the kitchen, then turns back to write up the farmer's bill.

          COUNTER GIRL
     Yes, and will that be... Oh!

The girl's words trail off as she notices a tear of blood 
running down the farmer's cheek from under the right lens of 
his sunglasses.

          COUNTER GIRL
     Hey, Mister. Did you know you're 
     bleeding?

The farmer dabs at his cheek with a tobacco-stained finger, 
smearing the blood.

          FARMER
     It's nothin'.

          TRUCKER
     Musta had a rough night, Buddy.

          FARMER
     Think I got in a fight or somethin'. 
     Can't remember too good.

The man in the kitchen slaps a bucket of chicken down on the 
kitchen-window counter.

          KITCHEN MAN
     One bucket ready to go.

The counter girl picks up the bucket and carries it over to 
the trucker. She has just barely put it down when the farmer 
grabs it and starts tearing the lid from it.

          TRUCKER
     Hey, Buddy. I think that one's mine.

The farmer grabs a piece of fried chicken from the bucket 
and starts wolfing it down. The trucker puts his hand on the 
farmer's shoulder and turns him around so that they face 
each other, a piece of chicken skin hanging from the farmer's 
lips.

          TRUCKER
     I said... I think that one's mine, 
     Buddy.

The farmer starts shaking uncontrollably.

          FARMER
     I gotta eat. I gotta eat. I gotta 
     eat...

          TRUCKER
     Take those glasses off so I can see 
     who I'm talkin' to.

The trucker reaches out and takes off the farmer's sunglasses. 
To his disgust, he is confronted with one closed, swollen, 
and bleeding eye, and one eye which has almost completely 
clouded over from white of eye to pupil.

          TRUCKER
     What the hell...

Bits of chicken drool from the farmer's mouth, followed by a 
froth of dark green foam. Without warning, the farmer lunges 
at the trucker and tries to bite his face. The trucker dodges 
out of the way, catches the farmer by his jacket and swings 
him over the counter, where he crashes into the counter girl.

As the kitchen man comes out of the kitchen with a pot of 
boiling oil in his hand, the farmer grabs the girl and manages 
to bite her on the arm before she can pull away. Green foam 
dribbles into the girl's wound.

Once the girl has pulled loose and backs away, screaming 
hysterically, the kitchen man throws the potful of oil on 
the farmer as he struggles to his feet. The farmer screams.

As the dog barks madly at the door, the trucker and the 
kitchen man jump on the farmer and pound him senseless behind 
the counter.

INT. SURGICAL WASH-UP AT THE KELOID CLINIC -- MORNING

Keloid and Roxanne are preparing to perform an early morning 
facelift. They wash their hands and forearms and put on 
surgical gloves as the scrub-nurse prepares their masks and 
gowns. Keloid has a thick band-aid on his neck.

          ROXANNE
     You're sure you want to do this one, 
     Dan? Louise and I could handle it 
     with no trouble.

          KELOID
     I'll be fine.

          ROXANNE
     You were pretty groggy this morning.
          (noticing band-aid)
     Cut yourself shaving?

          KELOID
     I'll be fine.

Keloid turns away from Roxanne to avoid further discussion. 
The orderly begins to help him on with his surgical gown. 
Keloid allows a pained, confused expression to take over his 
face for a moment, then suppresses it.

EXT. SIX-LANE HIGHWAY -- MORNING

On a six-lane highway leading out of Montreal, Cypher's 
station wagon starts out on its journey to the Keloid Clinic.

INT. STATION WAGON -- MORNING

Inside, Cypher and Read sit bleary-eyed, both drinking coffee 
from styrofoam cups with slits in their covers and listening 
to the car radio in silence. The 8 a.m. news is in progress.

          NEWSCASTER (V.O.)
     ...but there can be little doubt 
     that the issue of police brutality 
     will still be with us for some time 
     to come. And speaking of brutality -- 
     an incident of violence that took 
     place over a Highway 11 fried chicken 
     take-out counter ended in the death 
     of one man and the wounding of an 
     eighteen-year-old girl. We'll give 
     you further details on that story as 
     they become available.

Read and Cypher drive on to the sounds of a Radio Shack 
commercial.

INT. CLINIC OPERATING ROOM -- MORNING

Keloid, Roxanne, Karl, Louise, and the scrub-nurse are in 
the process of performing a routine facelift on a middle-
aged woman.

Roxanne watches Keloid closely for signs of fatigue as he 
makes the first cut under the woman's chin with a scalpel. 
Keloid's hand is rock steady. He makes two more cuts and 
rolls back a flap of skin. Everything seems to be under 
control.

INT. STATION WAGON -- MORNING

Cypher and Read drive on, listening to the rest of the news 
story.

          NEWSCASTER (V.O.)
     The man, later identified as forty-
     three-year-old Fred Atkins of 
     Camelford, went berserk this morning 
     during an argument over who was to 
     be served his bucket of chicken first 
     and bit the counter girl on the arm. 
     The man was subdued by an unidentified 
     truck driver and the chicken place's 
     cook, but died of unknown causes 
     before police arrived. Local health 
     authorities suspect that rabies might 
     be involved and have vaccinated 
     everyone concerned. The dead man's 
     dog was destroyed on the spot. And 
     now, a brief pause for station 
     identification, after which we'll 
     talk to a scientist who says that 
     earthquakes may one day become a 
     thing of the past...

While they listen to a variation of the Radio Shack 
commercial, Cypher notices that they're passing by the 
Kentucky Fried Chicken depot. There are still two police 
cars parked in the parking lot.

          CYPHER
     Hey, we're right there.

          READ
          (drowsy)
     Huh?

          CYPHER
     The place they were talking about on 
     the radio.
          (joking)
     Wanna stop off for some fried chicken?

          READ
          (not reacting to the 
          joke)
     Not hungry, thanks.

Cypher is about to say something further, but realizes that 
Read is too preoccupied with Rose to banter with. He decides 
to let it drop. They drive off to the sounds of easy-listening 
radio.

INT. CLINIC OPERATING ROOM -- MORNING

Keloid is now stitching up the flap of skin under his 
patient's chin. Roxanne notices that his hand is no longer 
as steady as it was earlier on in the operation. He is having 
trouble placing his stitches properly. His mask is soaking 
through at the mouth.

          ROXANNE
     Do you want me to complete the 
     stitching, Dr. Keloid?

          KELOID
     I need... I need something to cut 
     with, Dr. Rushton.

          ROXANNE
     You want the scissors now, Doctor?

          KELOID
     Yes. The scissors now.

Roxanne's brow is furrowed as she reaches for the scissors 
on her instrument tray and hands them to Keloid.

          ROXANNE
     Scissors.

Instead of simply allowing the scissors to be placed in his 
hand, Keloid grabs Roxanne by the wrist with one hand and 
takes the scissors with the other. He turns to look at her. 
She is shocked to see that his eyes have completely clouded 
over. Looking into them is like looking down two dark holes.

          ROXANNE
     Dan...!

Without hesitation, Keloid takes the scissors and cuts the 
tip of Roxanne's index finger off. Roxanne stares down at 
her bleeding finger, an unvoiced scream rising in her throat. 
Keloid lets the scissors drop to the floor and pulls down 
his mask. Dark green fluid foams from his mouth. He falls to 
his knees and puts Roxanne's index finger in his mouth, 
sucking on it like a straw. Roxanne screams.

Louise, who turned to look at Keloid at the sound of the 
falling scissors, screams in unison, backing away in terror 
and disbelief. The operating room explodes in confusion and 
panic as Keloid and Roxanne start to thrash about, knocking 
instruments and various surgical appliances to the floor. 
The patient slumbers on, oblivious.

Dr. Karl, the anesthetist, leaves his post behind the 
patient's head and tries to pull Keloid off Roxanne.

          KARL
     Dan, don't be stupid! What's the 
     matter with you? Are you crazy or 
     something? Stop it! Stop it!

Keloid lets go of Roxanne and sinks his teeth into Karl's 
shoulder. Karl screams in pain but doesn't let go. Louise 
finally regains enough presence of mind to run out of the 
operating room. Roxanne writhes in pain and shock on the 
floor.

          LOUISE
     I'm getting the police! I'm going to 
     call the police!

INT. PATIENTS' LOUNGE -- MORNING

Rose is sitting in the patients' lounge with one or two other 
patients, watching TV. Next to Rose is a mobile intravenous 
cart, to whose three bottles she is attached by several IV 
tubes. A young nurse we have not seen previously sits beside 
her, obviously instructed to keep a close watch on Rose, who 
wears a clinic dressing-gown over her nightgown.

Suddenly Louise comes flying past the lounge in hysterics, 
half crying, half screaming.

          LOUISE
          (hysterical)
     He's gone crazy, he's gone crazy! 
     He's killing everybody! There's blood 
     everywhere! We've got to do something! 
     We've got to get the police!

She picks up a stream of staff members and patients who trail 
after her trying to get some sense out of the completely 
distracted woman. The nurse watching Rose immediately gets 
up and runs after Louise, as does one of the two patients 
watching TV in the lounge. The other patient, terrified by 
the panic in Louise's voice, shrinks into a corner and tries 
to look inconspicuous.

The instant everyone rounds the corner at the end of the 
lounge, Rose stands up and pushes her IV cart down a hall 
that goes in the opposite direction.

INT. SIDE HALLWAY -- MORNING

Once she is out of sight, Rose quickly begins to detach 
herself from her IV tubes. Shouts and sounds of struggle 
rise and fall in the distance as she pulls the needles out 
of her wrists.

INT. JUDY GLASBERG'S ROOM -- MORNING

Rose enters Judy Glasberg's room and closes the door behind 
her. She pauses only for a moment to glance at the photos of 
Judy tacked up on the wall showing her before and after her 
proposed nose job, then opens Judy's closet and starts 
rummaging through the clothes hanging there.

INT. CYPHER'S STATION WAGON -- LATE MORNING

Cypher and Read are on the last stretch of highway before 
the curve which reveals the driveway of the Keloid Clinic. 
Read has not warmed up too much, his anxiety increasing as 
they've gotten closer to the clinic.

          READ
          (looking through the 
          windshield)
     Hey, look. What's going on there? 
     The place is crawling with police.

          CYPHER
     What? Hey, you're right.

          READ
     Oh, Christ, no! It's Rose. It's got 
     to be. Something's happened to Rose!

          CYPHER
     Take it easy, Hart. They wouldn't 
     need three cruisers for that. It's 
     something else for sure.

EXT. CLINIC DRIVEWAY -- LATE MORNING

Cypher's car pulls up the driveway, with Read hanging half-
way out of the passenger door. Read jumps out before the car 
has come to a full stop.

There are indeed three Quebec Provincial Police cruisers 
parked at various strategic spots around the front of the 
clinic. There is also a paddy wagon parked right next to a 
Quebec Bureau of Health van. Cypher and Read walk up to the 
front doors and enter the clinic.

INT. CLINIC -- LATE MORNING

Several police officers and a police photographer are moving 
through the building with Dr. Karl, who is describing what 
happened to the officer in charge. Karl looks harried, 
confused, and very unhappy.

Read and Cypher meet Karl and the head officer as they talk 
in the reception area. Karl's operating tunic is bloodstained 
at the shoulder.

          CYPHER
          (to Karl)
     Where's Dr. Keloid? What's happening?

          COP
     Who are you?

          KARL
     Murray, thank God you're here. It's 
     been a nightmare.
          (to cop)
     This is Murray Cypher. He's one of 
     the owners of the clinic.

          CYPHER
     What's the story, Bill?

          KARL
     It's Danny. He went berserk in the 
     middle of an operation. I was there. 
     He tried to kill Roxanne. He cut 
     her. They had to take her away.

He chokes up.

          CYPHER
          (in disbelief)
     Danny? You've got to be kidding.

          READ
          (to Karl)
     Oh, God. Have you seen Rose? Has 
     anything happened to her? Is she all 
     right?

          KARL
     Rose? You mean... no, no, this has 
     nothing to do with her. She should 
     be around somewhere.

          COP
          (to Karl)
     OK, let's see if I've got this 
     straight. You were in the middle of 
     an operation, a routine facelift, 
     did you say?

          KARL
     That's right. That's what we do here. 
     The operation was just about over... 
     it was Dr. Keloid who was performing 
     it, you see... This is so bizarre...

Read turns away from the main doors and walks through the 
reception area looking anxiously for Rose. There he encounters 
two patients, Miss Owen and a slightly younger woman, sitting 
in lawn chairs discussing the events of the morning.

          MISS OWEN
          (to woman patient)
     ...certainly they took her away. She 
     was bleeding and she was completely 
     hysterical. Couldn't make out a word 
     she was saying.

          READ
     Have you seen Rose? The young girl 
     who was in the motorcycle accident?

          MISS OWEN
          (confused)
     Do you mean the girl who was in here 
     to have her nose fixed two times in 
     a row...?

INT. CLINIC ENTRANCE -- LATE MORNING

The chief cop, Cypher, and Karl are still talking.

          COP
          (to Cypher)
     So you are in fact Dr. Keloid's 
     business partner?

          CYPHER
     I am.

          COP
     Come with me, please.

The cop walks toward the main doors. Cypher turns to see if 
Karl is going to follow. Karl shakes his head and looks down 
at his shoes.

          KARL
     I can't, Murray. You go. I've seen 
     it.

Baffled, Cypher follows the cop out the front door.

EXT. CLINIC -- LATE MORNING

Cypher and the head cop leave the clinic and walk out to the 
parking lot. As they pass the Bureau of Health van and the 
Keloid Clinic ambulance, Cypher sees a man in a medical 
uniform giving a police officer an injection straight into 
his stomach muscles in the ambulance. The officer's hand is 
bandaged.

          COP
          (to Cypher)
     Couple of my men got bitten. Those 
     rabies shots are killers. Think I'd 
     rather take my chances on getting 
     sick instead.

          CYPHER
     Bitten? By what?

They arrive at the back of the paddy wagon. The cop points 
to the mesh windows in the wagon's rear doors.

          COP
     By that.

Cypher looks through the mesh. Without warning, Keloid throws 
himself against the mesh from the inside, frothing green at 
the mouth, smeared with blood and moaning like a creature 
from hell. He tries savagely to bite Cypher through the wire, 
which cuts his lips and scrapes the enamel from his teeth. 
Cypher jumps back.

          COP
     Can you confirm the identification 
     of this man as Dr. Daniel Keloid?

          CYPHER
          (totally dismayed)
     Oh, my God. My God.

INT. ENTRANCE OF CLINIC -- LATE MORNING

Read approaches one of two police officers who stand talking 
to the police photographer.

          READ
     Look... I'm trying to find my 
     girlfriend. She's a patient here. 
     She was here last night but nobody 
     seems to have seen her.

          SECOND COP
     We got a young girl downstairs. You 
     wanna take a look at her?

          READ
     Is her name Rose?

The two cops look at each other, then turn back to Read.

          SECOND COP
     We don't know. We didn't ask her. 
     C'mon.
          (to third cop)
     Tell the chief I'm downstairs gettin' 
     an ID. Be back in a flash.

The third cop nods. Read follows the second cop down a 
hallway.

INT. CLINIC BASEMENT -- LATE MORNING

Read follows the second cop down the stairs leading to the 
clinic's basement, which still shows traces of the clinic's 
origins as an old farmhouse.

The second cop walks over to a bank of three huge upright 
freezers used to store the frozen food supplies for the 
clinic's staff and patients. Read hangs back and glances 
around the immense basement. The cop walks over to the 
farthest freezer and swings open the door.

          SECOND COP
     C'mere. Can't see anything from there.

Read approaches slowly, certain his worst fears are going to 
be realized.

          SECOND COP
          (gesturing toward the 
          interior of the 
          freezer)
     Is that Rose?

Read forces himself to look. There, frozen into a block of 
ice that takes up the entire bottom of the freezer, is the 
hunched-over, naked body of Judy Glasberg, her eyes staring, 
her lashes frosted, her mouth twisted horribly.

Read exhales sharply, almost sobbing with a combination of 
horror and relief.

          READ
     No. No, that's not Rose.

EXT. TWO-LANE HIGHWAY -- DAY

Rose is in the process of hitch-hiking her way into Montreal. 
She doesn't have to wait too long before an immense diesel 
truck snorts and squeals to a stop on the gravel shoulder of 
the road. Rose is wearing Judy Glasberg's jeans, boots, 
flannel shirt, and jacket.

As Rose runs toward the truck, the passenger door swings 
open for her.

INT. TRUCK CAB -- DAY

Rose sits in the passenger seat, her bare feet up on the 
dash tapping in time to the country-and-western music coming 
from a tiny transistor radio hanging by a leather thong from 
the rear-view mirror. Rose is flushed and excited, almost 
delirious to find herself alive, healthy, and free.

Beside her, the trucker eats a steak on a bun with great 
enthusiasm. He's in his forties, graying at the temples, 
gentlemanly. He's just about to start in on the second half 
of his sandwich when he pauses and glances over at Rose, who 
is happily watching the countryside rush by. The trucker 
holds out the second half of his sandwich to Rose, taking 
care to hold it in its tinfoil wrapper and not to touch it 
with his fingers.

          TRUCKER
     Want this, Rose? Steak on a bun. 
     Real good.

          ROSE
     Um... wouldn't mind just one bite.

She takes the sandwich, carefully peels back the tinfoil 
from one end, and bites into it. She chews and swallows.

          ROSE
     You're right. It's fabulous.

EXT. TWO-LANE HIGHWAY -- DAY

The diesel truck pulls on to the dirt shoulder of the road 
and comes to a halt. The passenger door swings open and Rose 
jumps down, stumbling as she hits the ground. She starts to 
vomit before she even has a chance to get off her knees.

The trucker comes around from the other side of the cab and 
squats down beside her. He puts his arms around her and holds 
her while she finishes being sick.

          TRUCKER
     Last time I ever patronize that greasy 
     spoon, I can promise you that. C'mon 
     sweetheart. There's a girl. Get it 
     all out.

Rose wipes her mouth with the sleeve of her shirt and tries 
to stand up. She's still wobbly.

          TRUCKER
     You just put your arms around me and 
     I'll lift you back in. We'll get you 
     some coffee or some soup or something 
     at the next stop, OK?

Rose nods weakly and puts her arms around the trucker. As he 
lifts her up she holds him close and closes her eyes. A tear 
runs down each cheek.

                                   DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. TWO-LANE HIGHWAY -- DAY

Rose walks along the side of the road, hitch-hiking once 
again. After two cars pass her without stopping, an American 
sedan pulls off the road slightly ahead of her and then backs 
up to meet her. Rose gets in and the car pulls back on to 
the highway. She is flushed and invigorated.

INT. SEDAN -- DAY

Rose finds herself sitting next to a plump, pleasant-looking 
lady in her late thirties who smokes a cigarette furiously 
as she drives.

          LADY
     Hi. Where are you going?

          ROSE
     Montreal. Where are you going?

          LADY
     Same place.

Rose settles back in her seat and allows herself a smile. 
Her cheeks are flushed and glowing.

          ROSE
     That's wonderful. Thanks. I was 
     beginning to think I'd never get 
     back home again.

EXT. TWO-LANE HIGHWAY -- DAY

A Camelford police cruiser is on its way down the highway 
going in the direction opposite to Rose.

We follow the cruiser down the road a few hundred yards until 
the diesel truck that stopped to pick up Rose comes into 
view, still stopped by the side of the road, its passenger 
door open.

The cruiser pulls over and parks behind the truck. One of 
the QPP officers gets out and walks over to the cab of the 
truck. When he gets close to the cab, the officer finds the 
driver of the truck sitting sideways on the passenger seat, 
his legs out of the cab, feet resting on the running board. 
The driver seems to be in some kind of daze and he is very 
pale.

          OFFICER
     Something wrong?

          TRUCKER
     Huh? Uh, no... nothing really wrong. 
     I... I guess I musta dozed off. Yeah. 
     That's it, I guess. Pulled over to 
     have a nap.

          OFFICER
     Well, that's good. We find too many 
     of you boys taking pills to keep 
     yourselves going all day and all 
     night. Next time, though, try to 
     pick a better spot to pull over. 
     This road's kind of narrow.

          TRUCKER
     Oh, yeah. Right. Will do, Officer.

          OFFICER
     OK. Have a nice day.

          TRUCKER
     Yeah. Thanks.

As the trucker turns to watch the cop leave, we see blood 
trickling from a wound at the back of his neck which the 
trucker is obviously unaware of himself. The officer walks 
back to his car and waits until the truck pulls off the 
shoulder and heads back down the road toward the city.

EXT. CAMELFORD STATION OFF TWO-LANE HIGHWAY -- DAY

The cruiser pulls into the parking lot of the local station, 
which is just off the two-lane highway between the clinic 
and the spot where the diesel truck stopped by the side of 
the road.

In the parking lot, mixed in with various police vehicles, 
are several familiar vehicles, including Cypher's station 
wagon and the clinic van.

As the two officers get out of their car, they're met by a 
Health Bureau official dressed in white who shows them his 
ID card.

          HEALTH OFFICIAL
     Claude Lapointe, Quebec Bureau of 
     Health, official business. Sorry, 
     boys. You can't go in unless you're 
     willing to stay. The whole station's 
     under quarantine. We think we've got 
     an epidemic.

INT. CAMELFORD POLICE STATION -- DAY

Inside the station, Cypher sits on one side of a desk 
explaining things to the head cop, who's trying to keep up 
with him on an old typewriter. Phones are ringing everywhere, 
typewriters are clacking away.

In one corner we find Read glued to the receiver of a 
payphone, a finger in his free ear, trying desperately to 
hear what's being said at the other end of the line.

          READ
     Hey, Mindy? You still there? Yeah, 
     it's crazy here. I can hardly hear a 
     thing. Yeah. Listen, I thought that 
     Rose might try to get in touch with 
     you. Yeah. She what? She called you? 
     Oh, that's great. She's on her way 
     over? That's incredible. You wouldn't 
     believe what's been happening. It's 
     crazy time. Yeah. Totally. Well, 
     listen. When she gets there, tell 
     her I'll be stuck in the Camelford 
     cop shop for at least forty-eight 
     hours. Camelford. It's a town you go 
     through on the way to the clinic. 
     That's right. The whole clinic was 
     hit with rabies or something, they're 
     not sure exactly. Yeah, the whole 
     clinic. She might have to come in 
     for tests or something. I'll find 
     out. Yeah. You keep her there for 
     me. As soon as I get out I'll come 
     and get her. Yeah. OK, Mindy. Ciao.

Read hangs up. He discovers that he's actually smiling.

EXT. MONTREAL TRUCK DEPOT -- NIGHT

At a Montreal truck depot, crates are being unloaded from a 
warehouse and on to a series of trucks. A dispatcher works 
his way through the crowd of loaders looking for a missing 
driver.

          DISPATCHER
     Hey, anybody here seen Eddy? He's 
     got the lead truck and I can't find 
     the son of a bitch. Hey, you seen 
     Smooth Eddy?

          LOADER
     I seen him climb into the box of his 
     truck half an hour ago. He didn't 
     look too good.

          DISPATCHER
     Whaddya mean he didn't look too good? 
     Smooth Eddy always looks good.

          LOADER
     Naw, I mean he looked sick. Like, 
     nauseous.

          DISPATCHER
     What the fuck we runnin' here, a 
     nursery?

The dispatcher, a short, dark, mustachioed man, works his 
way up to the lead truck.

          DISPATCHER
     Eddy... Hey, Eddy, you in there?

EXT. DEPOT -- NIGHT

The dispatcher shoves his way to the sliding side door of 
Eddy's trailer and grabs the handle.

          DISPATCHER
     You in there, Eddy? We gotta get 
     this rig movin'.

The dispatcher slides the door open. Eddy screams the second 
the light hits him and jumps out at the dispatcher, eyes 
clouded over, foaming mouth wide open. The dispatcher is 
bowled over by the force of the impact and he falls backwards 
to the concrete, Eddy all over him, screaming and biting the 
dispatcher's face and arms.

In an instant five loaders are trying to pull Eddy away. 
Eddy immediately turns on them, managing to inflict several 
bites before he disappears beneath the ever-increasing mass 
of loaders and truckers trying to get at him.

INT. MINDY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Mindy is watching TV in her cramped one-bedroom downtown 
high-rise apartment. Mindy is twenty-one, has lived on her 
own for years, is on the plump side of voluptuous, and works 
for IBM selling office equipment.

As she watches her color portable, Mindy idly turns the pages 
of Vogue magazine, smokes a cigarette, and alternately sips 
a cognac and a black coffee. There is a special newscast 
concerning the alleged rabies outbreak in the clinic region, 
complete with documentary footage shot outside the quarantined 
QPP station.

          NEWSCASTER
     ...and health officials have said 
     they consider the outbreak of the 
     new strain of rabies as being 
     potentially 'the worst of this 
     century.' At the police station in 
     Camelford, Kathy Draper talked to 
     Quebec Bureau of Health official 
     Claude Lapointe.

The news camera pans across the front of 52 station and ends 
up in a close-up of Mr Lapointe, standing in front of his 
van.

          LAPOINTE
     Certainly this is serious. This is 
     not just a question of swine flu or 
     something like that. We have already 
     several deaths on our hands in this 
     one small area alone, and the main 
     problem is... we don't know what 
     we're up against.

          INTERVIEWER (O.C.)
     Are you saying that this is not an 
     outbreak of rabies?

          LAPOINTE
     I'm not saying that. I'm not saying 
     that, exactly. But it must be a new 
     strain of rabies, because there are 
     symptoms involved which we and even 
     the world health community do not 
     seem to be familiar with.

          INTERVIEWER (O.C.)
     What are these symptoms?

          LAPOINTE
     Well, the period of incubation of 
     this disease is very brief, maybe 
     six to eight hours at the most. Now, 
     that's quick, much quicker than normal 
     rabies. Then the victim begins to 
     sweat, to shake, to foam at the mouth. 
     That's not so rare. What is rare is 
     that the victim always with this new 
     disease becomes violent and wants to 
     bite somebody new. And this crazy 
     phase is followed by a coma and then, 
     in every case we know, by death. 
     It's very strange.

          INTERVIEWER (O.C.)
     What advice would you give to our 
     viewers?

          LAPOINTE
     The disease spreads through the saliva 
     of the victim... the saliva is very 
     contagious. It dribbles into open 
     wounds and cuts and causes immediate 
     infection.

          INTERVIEWER (O.C.)
     So?

          LAPOINTE
          (shrugging)
     So... don't let anybody bite you. 
     And if somebody does, find a doctor 
     who can give you rabies shots 
     immediately. We are already setting 
     up vaccination centers beginning 
     right here and spreading out toward 
     Montreal. If we don't keep the disease 
     localized and out of large centers 
     of population, well... I wouldn't 
     like to say what it could be like.

          INTERVIEWER (O.C.)
     I heard you mention the Black Plague 
     of London just before we went on the 
     air. Is that what you mean by...?

          LAPOINTE
          (laughing)
     We sometimes like to be dramatic 
     about these things. It's more 
     interesting than the usual paperwork 
     and we get... you know... we get 
     excited. It's a real challenge...

There is a knock at the door. Mindy gets up and opens it. 
Standing in the corridor is Rose.

          ROSE
     Surprise. I'm amongst the living.

Mindy throws her arms around Rose, hugs her, and pulls her 
inside the door. They separate, then hug again, both of them 
on the verge of tears.

INT. CAMELFORD STATION CELL -- NIGHT

Cypher and Read are sharing an open cell at the QPP station, 
which has been made as homely as possibly by the addition of 
two chairs and a small table, which Cypher is using as a 
desk. Read lies back on the lower half of one of the cell's 
three double bunk beds, arms behind his head, watching Cypher 
sift through a maze of papers of all sizes and shapes.

          READ
     Got anything in there I might want 
     to read? I'm starting to go stir 
     crazy already.

          CYPHER
     It's actually pretty exciting stuff 
     if you know how to interpret it.

Cypher throws down his Audit Point pen, leans back, and puts 
his feet up on the table.

          READ
     I guess I'm just going on automatic 
     pilot right now.

          CYPHER
          (shakes his head)
     I can't connect that creature I saw 
     in the paddy wagon with Danny. I 
     just can't believe they're all dead...

Read is on the verge of saying something when they are both 
startled by the sound of a sudden chase in the main office 
at the end of the row of cells. Screams and yells are 
punctuated by the crash of overturned furniture and smashing 
glass.

Read and Cypher barely have time to get to their feet when 
they see the head cop backing slowly through the door leading 
to the main office, his service revolver drawn.

          COP
     George, for God's sake! Can't you 
     understand what I'm saying? Stay 
     back! Sit on the floor and put your 
     hands on your head.

When the cop is about a third of the way down the aisle 
between the rows of cells, Read steps out behind him. The 
cop doesn't take his eyes away from the doorway.

          READ
     What's going on?

          COP
     Get into the cell and be ready to 
     lock yourselves in. Do what I tell 
     you!

Before Read has a chance to move, a second cop appears, 
sweating, staggering, drooling green foam, eyes expressionless 
black holes. The infected cop is stalking the head cop. 
Somebody shouts from somewhere back in the main office.

          VOICE
     Get out of the line of fire, Ted. 
     We'll take him from here with the 
     scatterguns.

          COP
          (shouting back)
     Gimme a count of three, Joe! I'll be 
     outta your way by three!

          VOICE
     One...!

The head cop draws even with the door of Read and Cypher's 
cell. Cypher has already backed into it and flattened himself 
against the wall opposite the aisle. The infected cop comes 
closer. Cypher notices the bandage on his hand, then 
recognizes him as the cop at the clinic entrance who was 
bitten by Keloid and got rabies shots immediately afterwards.

          VOICE
     Two...!

          COP
          (to Read and Cypher)
     Gimme room. I'm coming in quick.

          VOICE
     Three...!

The head cop dives sideways into the cell. The infected cop 
lunges forwards after him and is half-way through the cell 
door when Read, hanging on to the bars of the cell for 
leverage, puts his foot in the cop's stomach and kicks him 
back out into the line of fire. Before the infected cop can 
regain his balance, he is punched to the floor by several 
shotgun blasts.

By the time the guns stop firing, the infected cop's body 
has been pushed almost to the end of the aisle. The head cop 
steps out to meet the three cops from the main office, who 
approach warily through the acrid smoke drifting up from the 
barrels of their guns.

          COP
          (to nobody in 
          particular)
     They gave him rabies shots. He got 
     bitten up at that facelift place and 
     they gave him his shots right away.

The head cop turns away from the body and looks up at the 
three men from the main office.

          COP
     They didn't do him any damn good, 
     did they?

Read and Cypher exchange glances. It's been a lousy day.

INT. MINDY'S LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

Mindy and Rose are sitting in Mindy's living room, Rose in 
front of the TV on the sofa, Mindy at a small desk in the 
corner with papers and some sort of training manual spread 
out in front of her. Rose is watching TV with a long ear 
plug trailing from the silent TV set across three feet of 
rug, up the sofa, and into her left ear.

Rose is watching Shivers, starring Paul Hampton, Joe Silver, 
and Barbara Steele, and is getting very restless. She can't 
help glancing over at Mindy, who is eating a ham sandwich 
while she works. Mindy has her hair pulled back and the pulse 
in her neck is somehow very prominent. Rose pulls the plug 
out of her ear, turns off the TV set, stands up, and goes to 
the closet next to the front door. Mindy looks up from her 
work for the first time.

          MINDY
     What are you doing, Rose?

          ROSE
          (putting on her jacket)
     I think I have to go out for a while.

Mindy gets up and joins Rose at the door.

          MINDY
     Rosie, I feel so stupid. I haven't 
     been much of a hostess. Why don't 
     you stay here? There must be something 
     in the fridge I can tempt you with.

          ROSE
          (opening the door)
     Thanks, Mindy, but it's not that. I 
     just have to get out into the fresh 
     air again. It's a real experience 
     for me just to walk down a street.

          MINDY
     I'll come with you.

          ROSE
     No. You stay here and work. I won't 
     be gone too long.

          MINDY
     OK, Rosie. If you get dizzy or 
     anything, call me.

Rose laughs, pats Mindy on the cheek, and leaves.

EXT. ST. CATHERINE'S STREET -- NIGHT

Rose walks down the most crowded part of St. Catherine's 
Street she can find. She has a new sensitivity to the heat 
radiating from the bodies of those close to her, and the 
presence of so much warm, jostling flesh full of blood whose 
coursing she can almost hear soon makes her eyes shine, her 
nostrils flare, her steps quick and precise.

Rose soon finds herself standing in front of an Eve Cinema, 
which is showing two soft-core skin flicks, as usual. On an 
impulse, Rose digs around in the pockets of Judy Glasberg's 
jeans. In the back pocket she finds a five-dollar bill. She 
hesitates for only a moment, then buys a ticket and enters 
the cinema.

INT. EVE CINEMA -- NIGHT

Rose walks down the center aisle and sits alone in the middle 
of an empty row of seats not far from the screen and its 
murky orgiastics.

It is not long before a thirtyish, balding man leaves his 
seat at the back of the cinema and sits directly behind Rose. 
As he removes his jacket, he brushes against Rose's hair 
with his hand as though by accident. Rose turns around to 
look at him.

          BALDING MAN
     'Scuse me. I didn't mean to touch 
     you.

Rose gives him a hard look, then turns around to face the 
screen again.

          BALDING MAN
     Well, pardon me for existing.

Rose turns around again.

          ROSE
     I thought you did it on purpose.

          BALDING MAN
     No. Really. I was taking my jacket 
     off and it brushed against you.

          ROSE
     Oh, well, I'm sorry. I like seeing 
     these movies but men are always 
     bothering me. I guess I'm a little 
     paranoid.

          BALDING MAN
     Well, look. If I come and sit beside 
     you everybody will think we're 
     together and you'll be able to watch 
     in peace. All I ask is a couple 
     handfuls of popcorn.

          ROSE
          (laughing)
     OK. C'mon.

The balding man gets up, moves to the end of his aisle, then 
makes his way toward Rose, trying not to blow it by betraying 
his excitement. He sits down beside Rose. She offers him 
some popcorn.

                                   DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. EVE CINEMA EXIT -- NIGHT

Rose slips out of the side exit of the cinema into an alley, 
her cheeks flushed, her breathing heavy. Crowds of people 
still throng past the opening at the end of the alley, the 
night just beginning. Rose watches them move past as though 
still watching a movie, feeling the full weight of her 
separation from the ordinary. After a pause, she moves out 
to join it.

INT. EVE CINEMA -- NIGHT

Back in the theater, the balding man is still sitting in his 
seat three rows from the screen, slumped down, his head on 
his chest, one arm thrown out around the edge of the seat 
beside him. Blood streams from a small hole in the palm of 
the outstretched hand, which is still curved as though 
embracing someone's shoulder.

The images reflecting from the screen flicker across his 
face, but he sees nothing.

INT. MINDY'S LIVING ROOM -- MORNING

Mindy is preparing and eating her breakfast of bran muffins, 
coffee, and orange juice on the run. While she shuffles her 
coffee cup and her notebooks, she listens to the radio.

          NEWSCASTER (V.O.)
     ...decide that each municipality 
     should take on the responsibility 
     for setting up vaccination centers 
     in community halls and health clinics. 
     Police have criticized the City Hall 
     decision, saying that evidence has 
     come to light which indicates that 
     normal rabies vaccine is completely 
     ineffective against the new strain 
     of the disease. They are asking 
     instead for the organization of a 
     series of militia-and army-controlled 
     quarantine centers until such time 
     as an effective vaccine is developed. 
     Said one police spokesman: 'We are 
     having trouble containing the known 
     outbreaks of violence induced by the 
     disease as it is. Imagine what will 
     happen if it spreads through the 
     city like a normal wave of the flu.'

Mindy has finally gotten herself ready to go to work. Just 
before she leaves, she knocks on the bathroom door.

          MINDY
     I'm going, Rosie. I've left you some 
     coffee on the stove. Turn it off if 
     you go out, OK?

          ROSE (O.S.)
     OK. 'Bye.

          MINDY
          (slightly worried 
          pause)
     Aren't you going to wish me luck?
          (pause)
     Are you OK?

          ROSE (O.S.)
          (oddly muffled)
     Brushing my teeth. Good luck.

          MINDY
          (relaxing)
     Thanks. See you later.

Mindy turns to the front door, opens it, and leaves.

INT. MINDY'S BATHROOM -- MORNING

In the bathroom, Rose is doubled over on the floor clutching 
her stomach. Two seconds after she hears the front door slam 
closed, she lets out a low, strangled moan and begins to 
roll around on the floor.

A sudden spasm forces her to curl into a ball again, her 
fingernails sinking into the palms of her hands. After the 
spasm passes, she props herself up against the bathroom door. 
A thread of blood curls down her wrist. She opens her right 
hand. She stares at the four tiny crescents of blood that 
her nails have cut into her palm. With slow, trancelike 
motions, she licks the blood off her wrist and her palm.

INT. SUBWAY STATION -- MORNING

Mindy stands in a crowded subway station waiting for her 
train to come. Every once in a while she glances down at a 
marked page in a blue corporation manual she's carrying, 
checking her memory against the printed specifications of 
various pieces of office equipment.

The train finally comes and Mindy gets crammed in with the 
rest of the rush-hour crowd.

INT. SUBWAY CAR -- MORNING

As the subway car pulls out of the station, Mindy leans 
against the door and continues to consult her manual. As she 
looks up and off into space, trying to grasp the next set of 
machine specifications, her eye is caught by the face of a 
woman with her back against the opposite door. The woman 
seems to be blind -- her eyes are completely black from edge 
to edge.

Then Mindy notices with horror that the woman is trembling 
and drooling and foaming green at the mouth. The sea of faces 
between them seems indifferent to the woman until she screams 
at the top of her lungs and plunges forward with her mouth 
wide open, apparently trying to get at Mindy.

The people closest to the woman suddenly start to panic, and 
the panic moves out through the car in waves. Everyone starts 
to push and shove, and people try to climb over one another. 
The infected woman manages to lock her teeth on to the ear 
of a man who begins to punch her in the chest and stomach, 
himself completely terrified.

The subway car pulls into the next station and its doors 
open. Mindy is almost knocked to the platform and trampled 
but she manages to stay on her feet and flow with the 
stampede.

The people waiting to get on to the train are greeted with 
the spectacle of three men subduing an insane, shrieking 
woman on the floor of the car.

EXT. DOWNTOWN CONSTRUCTION SITE -- DAY

Mr. Lapointe, Quebec Health Bureau official, is riding in 
the back of a city limousine with an official from the mayor's 
office. The limousine is working its way through the rubble 
of a deserted construction site.

          LAPOINTE
          (exasperated)
     You'll pardon me, Mr. Stasiuk, but I 
     think the mayor should be taking 
     this epidemic more seriously than he 
     is.

          OFFICIAL
     A city is a complex machine, Mr. 
     Lapointe. Every part needs constant 
     attention. The mayor will listen to 
     you, but you're not the only one. It 
     takes time...

The limousine has worked its way into a relatively deserted 
section of the site, and now slows to a stop.

          OFFICIAL
          (to uniformed driver)
     Why have we stopped, Clark?

The driver points through the front windshield at the 
mannequin of a construction worker waving a flag that has 
been placed directly in the middle of the narrow dirt road 
they're travelling on.

          OFFICIAL
     Well, isn't there anyone around? Do 
     we have to turn around?

Before anyone can make a move, two construction workers 
suddenly emerge from the surrounding rubble and advance on 
the car, one of them carrying a pneumatic jackhammer.

          OFFICIAL
     Clark... roll down your window and 
     ask them why the road is blocked. It 
     may be strike trouble. Be careful.

Clark is in the process of rolling down his window when the 
man with the jackhammer turns on the hammer and applies the 
chisel to the driver's door. As the chisel point of the hammer 
chews up the door, Lapointe can see that the eyes of the two 
workers are clouded over and that they are all slavering 
green foam from their mouths.

          OFFICIAL
     Oh, Christ! Clark, let's get out 
     quick! Quick, man!

          LAPOINTE
     They've got the disease! Look at 
     their eyes! Report that to your mayor!

Before the driver can slam the limousine into reverse, the 
second infected worker has reached through the window and 
grabbed him by the hair. The hammer has completely penetrated 
the door. The driver screams. They'll kill us!

The two workers begin to drag the screaming driver out of 
the car. The official scrambles over the front seatbacks 
into the driver's seat, kicks the legs of the driver away 
from the foot controls, and slams the gearshift into reverse. 
The limousine fishtails backwards madly as the official floors 
the accelerator, the crumpled, bloodied driver's door flapping 
like a broken wing as the car backs down the road.

In the rapidly receding distance, Lapointe can see the 
infected workers hunching over Clark's body.

INT. SHOPPING MALL -- DAY

Rose sits in the middle of a shopping mall full of early 
Christmas shoppers. Her hair is matted and straggly and she 
watches the people in the mall hungrily. In the background, 
children line up to sit on the knee of a huge, enthroned 
Santa Claus surrounded by elaborately wrapped presents and 
Christmas trees attached to a huge backdrop of crimson and 
tinsel.

Two cops, a nervous young cop carrying a submachine-gun, and 
an older cop, watch the proceedings tensely. Large crowds 
always mean trouble. The two cops patrol the mall separately, 
keeping in touch by radio. A pleasant young man stops in 
front of Rose's bench, looks her over, then decides to get 
acquainted.

          YOUNG MAN
          (to Rose)
     Mind if I sit down?

          ROSE
     No. I don't mind.

The young man sits down.

          YOUNG MAN
     Nothing like Christmas, huh?

Rose doesn't answer. The young man is running out of opening 
lines.

          YOUNG MAN
     Ah... you smoke? You know... 
     cigarettes? You smoke?

          ROSE
     Yeah. Sure.

          YOUNG MAN
     Great. Have one of mine.

The young man fumbles in his jacket pocket for his pack of 
cigarettes, then awkwardly shakes one out of the pack for 
Rose. She takes it. The young man puts one in his mouth, 
then starts to feel around in his pockets for matches. He 
can't find any.

          YOUNG MAN
     No matches. You got a light?

Rose shakes her head. The young man looks around. He spots a 
man with a cigarette in his hand at the end of the adjacent 
bench. He gets up.

          YOUNG MAN
     Just a sec. I'll ask that guy over 
     there for a light. OK? Be right back.

He walks over to the man on the bench. As he approaches, he 
notices that the man's cigarette has burned right down to 
the flesh of his fingers.

          YOUNG MAN
     'Scuse me, Mac. Gotta light?

Without warning, the man on the bench leaps up at the young 
man and grabs him by the hair. The man, a powerful, bearded 
man of about sixty, has eyes like black holes and is drooling 
green foam. He pulls the young man's head back and begins to 
tear at his throat with nicotine-stained teeth. The young 
man screams.

The two cops break into a run the instant they locate the 
source of the screams. When they arrive at the bench, the 
bearded man looks up, his beard and mouth stained with blood. 
The young man is quite obviously on the verge of death. The 
young cop levels his submachine-gun at the man.

          YOUNG COP
     Stand up! Stand up and put your hands 
     behind your head!

The bearded man jumps up and tears off through the crowd of 
incredulous onlookers. The young cop follows him. The bearded 
man heads for the Santa Claus display.

          YOUNG COP
     Outta the way! Get outta the way. 
     He'll kill you! That man'll kill 
     you!

The children around the Santa Claus display scatter as the 
bearded man heads for them. The Santa Claus stands up and 
grabs at the bearded man just as the young cop opens fire 
with his submachine-gun. His bullets rip through both men 
and the entire display, scattering bits of Christmas wrapping 
and plastic fir trees everywhere.

The older cop arrives on the scene, revolver drawn, just as 
post-action shock hits the young cop.

          YOUNG COP
     Oh, Christ... I didn't mean to hit 
     the Santa Claus.

Deep in the gathering crowd, a traumatized Rose pushes her 
way through to an exit.

INT. CAMELFORD STATION -- DAY

We are close on a TV set sitting on the admitting sergeant's 
desk just inside the station's main entrance. A detailed 
analysis of the disease crisis is in the process of being 
broadcast, complete with news footage of army and militiamen 
jumping off trucks in Place Ville Marie, citizens being 
vaccinated at community health centers and at emergency depots 
set up in subway stations, etc.

          NEWSCASTER (V.O.)
     ...and the crisis has now been 
     officially granted epidemic status 
     by officials of the World Health 
     Organization. The Prime Minister was 
     reluctant to officially declare a 
     state of emergency, but as any citizen 
     in the streets can tell you, martial 
     law has come to Montreal. At an 
     emergency vaccination center set up 
     in the Atwater Metro Station, we 
     spoke with a director of the World 
     Health Organization who had just 
     arrived from England to take charge 
     of liaison with Health Bureaus in 
     Western European countries.

The face of an aristocratic and very tweedy Englishman appears 
on the screen with the name Dr. Royce Gentry, Director, WHO, 
flashing beneath his face on the screen for a moment or two.

          GENTRY
     I don't think there's any question 
     that martial law is needed in the 
     city of Montreal at this point in 
     time. It's a necessity. It has already 
     been established that victims of the 
     disease -- and it is not rabies, 
     though it may be related to the rabies 
     virus -- victims of the disease are 
     beyond medical help once it has 
     established itself to the degree of 
     inducing violent behavior.

          INTERVIEWER (O.C.)
     What you're saying, then, Dr. Gentry, 
     is that...

          GENTRY
     What I'm saying is very simple. It 
     may not be very palatable for your 
     viewers. Shooting down victims of 
     the disease is as good a way of 
     handling them as we've got. If we 
     lock them up, they immediately go 
     into a coma and die shortly 
     afterwards. We've now got a vaccine 
     that we think will work in a 
     preventative way, but for those who 
     are already incubating the disease... 
     as far as we know, there's no hope 
     for them.

The face of Dr. Gentry is replaced by a close-up of a needle 
sinking into an arm.

          NEWSCASTER (V.O.)
     All those receiving shots of the new 
     vaccine are being issued plastic ID 
     cards with a photo of the card holder. 
     Viewers are urged not to leave their 
     homes unless absolutely necessary, 
     and are reminded that if they do 
     they must carry their vaccine cards 
     with them. Police, army, and militia 
     officers may demand to see them. 
     Here is a list of vaccination centers 
     in your area and the toll-free 
     telephone number of our special 
     emergency information center.

Read and Cypher, rumpled and haggard, are signing forms at 
the main desk of the station prior to being released. Both 
are wearing plastic vaccination plates on their jackets, 
Read toying impatiently with his.

          CYPHER
          (to desk sergeant)
     Goodbye, Sergeant. You've been a 
     wonderful host.

          SERGEANT
     OK, Murray. Take it easy. You sure 
     you don't want to stay out here with 
     us? The city doesn't sound like a 
     very appetizing place to be.

          CYPHER
     I would, but my wife and kid... you 
     know how it is.

          READ
          (very twitchy)
     C'mon, Murray. Rose is waitin' for 
     me.

          CYPHER
     OK, kid. Let's go.

EXT. CAMELFORD STATION -- DAY

Cypher and Read get into Cypher's station wagon, a QPP officer 
handing Cypher the car keys as he gets in.

          OFFICER
     Remember to keep your windows up and 
     your doors locked once you get into 
     the city. Maybe the bug can't get 
     you now, but that...
          (tapping Cypher's 
          plate)
     ...that won't protect you from the 
     crazies. Take care now.

Cypher nods and starts his car. They pull out of the parking 
lot and on to the highway.

INT. MINDY'S BEDROOM -- LATE DAY

Rose lies curled up in Mindy's double bed, the blankets 
twisted up around her, sweating, her shoes still on, her 
muscles contracting with waves of spasms that roll over her.

Rose hardly notices the sound of keys jingling, the latch 
turning, the front door opening. Mindy's home.

          MINDY (O.S.)
          (closing the door and 
          locking it)
     Rose? Are you home?

We hear the sound of Mindy walking through her living room, 
then approaching the bedroom.

          MINDY
     Rose? Are you asleep?

Mindy enters the bedroom, a bag of groceries in her arms. 
She stops at the door, shocked at Rose's appearance, then 
puts the bag down on her night table and sits on the bed 
beside Rose.

          MINDY
     Have you been out? Have you gotten 
     your shot?

Rose rolls over to face Mindy. Her lips are pale and parched, 
her nose is running, her voice shakes as she speaks.

          ROSE
          (feebly)
     I... I've been afraid to go out. 
     And, Mindy, I... I'm starving. I'm 
     starving to death. And I don't want 
     to eat. I don't want any more to 
     eat.

She bursts into tears and rolls away from Mindy, who slides 
across the bed after her and begins to stroke Rose's forehead.

          MINDY
     Rosie, what's been going on? What's 
     the matter with you? Poor kid. Well, 
     don't worry any more. We're two tough 
     ladies, you and me. We can handle 
     anything we have to.

EXT. EXPRESSWAY RAMP -- DUSK

Read and Cypher descend into the city on a long expressway 
ramp which affords them a clear view of other sections of 
highway and a large suburban plaza dominated by a huge 
supermarket.

Both their ramp and the other sections of highway are strewn 
with wrecked and burned-out cars and even the occasional 
body.

As the station wagon descends, they can see the line-up of 
people moving in and out of the supermarket guarded by 
soldiers with light machine-guns. Before anyone is allowed 
into the supermarket, he has to present his vaccine card at 
a registration desk set up at the entrance.

Cypher and Read plunge on, deeper into the city.

                                   DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. STREET AT FOOT OF EXIT RAMP -- NIGHT

The station wagon swings off the exit ramp and on to a city 
street, narrowly missing a few piles of garbage, which seems 
to be everywhere.

The street seems to be deserted, the stores on both sides 
closed and dark.

EXT. ANOTHER STREET -- NIGHT

The station wagon turns on to a long, broad, practically 
deserted street. The only human activity is centered around 
a convoy of heavy white city garbage trucks manned by white-
uniformed, hooded figures. The convoy of twelve is led by a 
military jeep whose rider, an army sergeant, orders them to 
peel off one by one down specific routes deemed primary for 
decontamination.

Armed soldiers ride on the tops of the trucks carrying rifles 
with telescopic sights.

INT. STATION WAGON -- NIGHT

          READ
     I can't believe it. It's like we 
     were at war.

          CYPHER
     Listen, Hart. We're going to my house 
     first. I'm not going to relax until 
     I know that everything there's OK. 
     Once we're there, I'll give you the 
     keys to the car and you can go get 
     your girl.

          READ
          (tense)
     OK. Thanks.

EXT. LEAFY SUBURBAN STREET -- NIGHT

The station wagon pulls up into the driveway of Cypher's 
small but pleasant suburban house. Except for a bit of garbage 
strewn about, there are no signs of unrest in the 
neighborhood. The odd rifle shot in the distance is fairly 
easy to ignore in these surroundings.

INT. STATION WAGON -- NIGHT

Cypher gets out of the car and Read slides over into the 
driver's seat.

          CYPHER
     Phone me when you get there, will 
     you? Maybe you should bring Rose 
     back here with you until this thing 
     blows over.

          READ
     Yeah. Listen, thanks for the car, 
     Murray. I'll call you.

Cypher smiles and heads up the driveway toward his front 
door. Read waits until Cypher has safely let himself into 
his house, then pulls out of the driveway and on to the 
street.

INT. CYPHER'S HOUSE, FIRST FLOOR -- NIGHT

Cypher enters his house and closes the door behind him. He 
puts his briefcase down on top of the hall radiator and walks 
toward the foot of the stairs.

          CYPHER
     Cecile? It's Murray, honey. I'm home.

Nobody answers. Cypher resists the temptation to panic and 
walks through the downstairs rooms. Everything seems 
reasonably neat but there is no one there. Cypher returns to 
the foot of the stairs and starts the climb to the second 
floor.

INT. CYPHER'S HOUSE, SECOND FLOOR -- NIGHT

Cypher gets to the top of the stairs and begins to move along 
the narrow hall taking him to the front of the house.

          CYPHER
     Cecile? I'm home, honey. Where are 
     you?

Cypher stops at the doorway of the baby's room and looks in.

INT. CYPHER'S HOUSE, BABY'S ROOM -- NIGHT

Cypher scans the baby's room, which from its cartoon wallpaper 
to its brightly colored broadloom and toy-filled shelves 
speaks volumes about the fastidious preparation which preceded 
baby's arrival.

He is about to continue on down the hall to the master bedroom 
when he notices that the broadloom beneath the baby's 
bathinette is wet. On an impulse he enters the room and lifts 
open the top covering the bathinette. The bathinette is half-
filled with bloody bath water, which has been leaking on to 
the carpeting, drop by drop, for hours.

Cypher lets the lid drop down with a mixture of fear and 
horror suddenly stabbing him in the pit of the stomach. An 
insane kind of moaning giggle drifts over to him from the 
corner of the room.

He whirls to face the sound. It seems to be coming from the 
closet. Drawn inexorably toward the sound, he approaches the 
closet, which is not completely closed. He raises his hand 
to grasp the doorknob.

Without warning, the closet door explodes open, smashing 
Cypher in the face and knocking him to the floor. A crazed, 
drooling Cecile lands heavily on top of him and begins to 
bite him savagely on the face, her clouded eyes devoid of 
all mercy or recognition.

INT. MINDY'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Mindy has tucked Rose into bed and is now applying a cold 
compress to her feverish forehead. Rose seems to be half 
asleep.

          MINDY
     That's it, Rosie. You just get as 
     much sleep as you need. Don't think 
     about anything. Let your mind drift.

Mindy gets up and goes into her kitchen, leaving Rose's door 
open just a crack.

INT. MINDY'S KITCHEN -- NIGHT

In her kitchen, Mindy continues preparing an elaborate 
vegetable stew, somehow convinced that her weeks in the 
hospital have induced in Rose an aversion to meat.

The TV set, Mindy's constant companion, has been turned around 
so that Mindy can just see it from where she's working, 
although the sound has been turned off in deference to Rose. 
At the moment there seems to be a detailed analysis of the 
difference between rabies and the new strain of disease 
holding the city in thrall, complete with microphotography, 
in progress.

INT. MINDY'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Rose takes the compress from her forehead and places it 
carefully on the night table. She slips out of bed and begins 
to rummage around in the closet for her clothes.

EXT. DOWNTOWN STREET -- NIGHT

Read drives Cypher's station wagon along a downtown street 
on his way to Mindy's. There are more people on this 
particular street than the ones he and Cypher first 
encountered. In fact, were it not for the heavily armed 
soldiers placed at several strategic points and the single 
guarded garbage truck making its rounds, all would seem 
normal. The sound of sporadic gunfire in the distance seems 
to have been accepted as everyday fare by everybody.

But Read's focus of attention is on the car radio. He has 
been listening to an analysis of the possible origins of the 
disease and the information he's getting is disturbing him. 
The voice on the radio is that of Dr. Royce Gentry.

          GENTRY (V.O.)
     And so after using some rather 
     elaborate tracking procedures and 
     applying them to a map, we find that 
     the disease does in fact seem to 
     have a very specific place of origin.

          INTERVIEWER (V.O.)
     Which is...?

          GENTRY (V.O.)
     Which is the Keloid Clinic of Cosmetic 
     Surgery, a few miles outside the 
     town of Camelford. You can see with 
     your own eyes how everything has 
     spread out from there in geometrically 
     increasing proportions. Now this 
     pattern, in conjunction with some of 
     our other statistics, indicates that 
     there is a strong possibility that 
     there is a special factor at work in 
     the spread of the disease.

          INTERVIEWER (V.O.)
     You mean a carrier.

          GENTRY (V.O.)
     Well, at the risk of setting off a 
     futile witch hunt... Yes. Someone 
     like the infamous Typhoid Mary who 
     incubates the disease and transmits 
     it, but is herself immune to it.

          INTERVIEWER (V.O.)
     What were they doing at the Keloid 
     Clinic, Dr. Gentry?

          GENTRY (V.O.)
     We've run into a certain amount of 
     difficulty ascertaining what exactly 
     was going on there. We know what it 
     wasn't. It had nothing to do with 
     germ warfare or the like... no secret 
     government contracts...

Read's concentration is suddenly shattered by a movement he 
catches in the corner of his rear-view mirror as he waits 
for a light to change. A crazy -- a man in his forties wearing 
a scarf and gloves but no coat -- breaks out from between 
two buildings just behind Read's car and heads for the 
clusters of people crossing at the light.

Read watches the man brush by the car as though watching the 
scene on television. The people in the crosswalk scatter at 
the crazy's approach. The sniper on top of the garbage truck 
has him safely in his crosshairs and squeezes off a shot. 
The crazy hurtles against the hood of the station wagon as 
though falling from a building and bounces off and on to the 
road.

Before Read can drive off, two garbage men run toward him 
from the garbage truck. One of them holds up his hand for 
Read to wait. He produces a spray bottle from under his white 
jumpsuit and sprays the crazy's blood that has spattered the 
car's hood. Then he waves Read on. Read puts his windshield 
wipers on.

INT. MINDY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Rose is dressed and trying to steal out the front door when 
Mindy hears her from the kitchen.

          MINDY (O.S.)
     Rose? Are you awake?

Rose yanks open the door and has one foot out the door when 
Mindy appears around the corner with a dish of sauce in her 
hand.

          MINDY
     Oh, no. Rose! You can't! It's 
     dangerous out there!

Mindy bangs the plate down on top of a stereo speaker and 
runs after Rose. She catches her a few steps out the door 
and hauls her back inside, swinging the door shut again with 
her foot. The door doesn't lock.

Rose is whimpering and weak. She starts to sink to the floor, 
and Mindy, not strong enough to hold her up, goes with her.

          ROSE
     Mindy, Mindy. I don't want it to be 
     you.

Mindy hugs Rose tightly, rocking her back and forth.

          MINDY
     Of course it should be me. Who else 
     but your best friend, Rose? I'll 
     take care of you.

          ROSE
          (pause)
     Oh, Mindy, I ache all over. I'm 
     hurting from the inside out.

          MINDY
     Well then, what you need is a nice, 
     deep, hot bath. It'll seep in and 
     relax you from the outside in.

She starts to unbutton Rose's shirt. Rose doesn't resist.

EXT. MINDY'S APARTMENT BUILDING -- NIGHT

Read parks the station wagon in front of Mindy's building 
and gets out. He sprints up the front steps.

INT. APARTMENT CORRIDOR -- NIGHT

Read emerges from the elevator at the end of the corridor 
and walks purposefully past the row of doors until he reaches 
Mindy's.

He reaches for the door. He notices that it's ajar and pulls 
back his hand at the last minute. He takes a deep breath, 
then kicks open the door.

INT. MINDY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

As the front door of Mindy's apartment slams open, Read is 
confronted by the bizarre spectacle of Rose hunched over 
Mindy's prostrate form, sucking blood from the large vein in 
one of Mindy's arms.

The instant the door slams open, Rose pulls her blood-sucking 
organ out of Mindy's arm and tries to hide it with her right 
hand. The organ, still dripping blood, slides back up under 
her arm into its sheath. The half-conscious Mindy puts her 
hand over the hole in her arm and mumbles incoherently.

As Read approaches, Rose backs away, slipping her left arm 
back into her shirt and fumbling with the buttons. Rose now 
looks flushed and healthy, excited and alive.

          ROSE
          (quietly)
     It's not my fault. It's not my fault.

          READ
     It's you. You're the one. It's been 
     you all along.

          ROSE
     What are you talking about?

          READ
     You carry the plague. You've killed 
     hundreds of people.

          ROSE
     No... no... you don't know what you're 
     talking about. I'm still me. I'm 
     still Rose.

          READ
     What did they do to you at the clinic? 
     What did they turn you into?

          ROSE
          (suddenly angry)
     I have to have blood. It's all I can 
     eat. And it's your fault, not mine. 
     It's your fault!

Read takes three quick steps and grabs Rose by the shoulders. 
She shrinks away from him as though he were the monster.

          READ
     There must be some way to fix this... 
     We'll go to the police... we'll go 
     to the hospital...

Rose twists out of Read's grasp and runs for the front door. 
Read turns and runs after her, almost tripping over Mindy. 
Rose makes it out the door before Read can catch her.

INT. APARTMENT CORRIDOR -- NIGHT

Read chases Rose down the corridor.

          READ
     Rose, I'm sorry... wait! Wait!

INT. STAIRWELL -- NIGHT

Read finally manages to catch Rose at the top of the 
stairwell. They struggle.

          READ
     Rose, listen to me. You're right. 
     We're in it together. We'll figure 
     it all out together...

As they struggle, Rose somehow smashes Read in the face with 
her elbow and he goes crashing backwards down the flight of 
stairs, hitting his head several times on the metal steps as 
he goes.

She watches in horror as Read falls, then stands frozen for 
several heartbeats after he has landed in a crumpled heap at 
the bottom of the stairs. She runs down after him and kneels 
beside him.

He has a few large bruises on his forehead and temples but 
is still breathing. Rose touches his lips with her fingers 
briefly, then gets up and continues down the stairs.

EXT. ENTRANCE OF MINDY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Rose opens the front door of the apartment building and steps 
out on to the front steps, bewildered. There she sees a man 
with a mustache sifting through a handful of letters on the 
bottom step. He looks up at the sound of the door opening.

          MUSTACHIOED MAN
     Can I help you? I've seen you around 
     before, haven't I? I just moved out 
     of this building. They keep sending 
     my mail here.

          ROSE
     I... yes, I'm a friend of Mindy Kent. 
     I was supposed to meet her here, but 
     she must have gone out.

          MUSTACHIOED MAN
     Well, it's not safe to walk the 
     streets these days, not for a while, 
     anyway. Can I escort you somewhere? 
     Have you been vaccinated? No? Me 
     neither. My brother told me he had 
     to line up for three hours. Who's 
     got time?

          ROSE
     Listen... I need a place to stay 
     tonight. At least until Mindy shows 
     up. Could I stay with you? For a 
     little while?

          MUSTACHIOED MAN
          (slightly flustered)
     I, ah... guess you could. I'm a single 
     guy, you know. We'd be alone.
          (pause)
     That doesn't bother you?

Rose shakes her head, wide-eyed and innocent.

          MUSTACHIOED MAN
     I'm a nice guy, too. C'mon. My car's 
     just down the street.

                                   DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Night has fallen over Mindy's apartment and the streets are 
dark and completely deserted.

INT. STAIRWELL -- NIGHT

Read is only now regaining consciousness in the damp apartment 
stairwell. He rubs his neck and gradually manages to get to 
his feet. The top of the stairs looks as though it's a mile 
away. Read begins to climb the stairs, one painful step at a 
time.

INT. CORRIDOR -- NIGHT

As Read staggers down the corridor, he hears a telephone 
begin to ring in the distance. The ringing gets louder and, 
somehow, more persistent as he gets closer to Mindy's door.

INT. MINDY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

The telephone is patiently ringing in Mindy's apartment, as 
though waiting for Read to answer it. He enters the apartment 
and takes a quick look around for signs of Mindy. The place 
is empty. He swings the door shut and locks it. Only then 
does he turn to the phone.

Read answers the telephone.

          READ
     Hello?

INT. MUSTACHE'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Rose has locked herself into the single man's apartment and 
slid a heavy table across the door. The single man sits 
slumped in an old wingback chair, his cheek bloody, his eyes 
closed.

Rose has turned out all the lights in the apartment except 
for a small mood light near the telephone, which sits on an 
end table by a Victorian velvet sofa. She speaks quietly 
into the receiver, as though not wanting to wake the 
mustachioed man.

          ROSE
     It's me, Hart. I'm glad I managed to 
     get you. Are you all right? Did I 
     hurt you?

          READ (V.O.)
     Rose, where are you? We should be 
     together. Please, tell me where you 
     are.

          ROSE
     Well, what you said to me hurt me. 
     It scared me. It scared me because I 
     suddenly knew you might be right. 
     And if you were right, about my being 
     a carrier, I mean... then I... I 
     murdered Mindy. I murdered a lot of 
     people.

          READ (V.O.)
     Rose, listen to me... No court of 
     law would convict you...

          ROSE
     So I decided to try a little 
     experiment to prove that you were 
     wrong about all that. You see? I'm 
     being very positive, aren't I?

          READ (V.O.)
     There's no reason for you to put 
     yourself through anything like this...

          ROSE
     So I found myself a partner for my 
     experiment, a single guy, real normal 
     and real healthy, and I took a little 
     of his blood... just a bit... and 
     I've locked myself in with him. And 
     I'm going to stay here with him until 
     I'm sure he's not going to get sick. 
     And then I'll know that I'm not the 
     one who started it all.

INT. MINDY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

          READ
     Rose, you've got to tell me where 
     you are. You're committing suicide.

          ROSE (V.O.)
     Hart, I just want you to be with me 
     over the phone... just until I find 
     out one way or the other. We can 
     live together over the phone for a 
     while. We can do that, can't we?

          READ
     Oh, God. Rose, how long ago did you... 
     take blood from the man you're with? 
     How long ago?

          ROSE (V.O.)
     Six hours. Maybe seven.

          READ
     Rose, you've got to get out of there.

INT. MUSTACHE'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

As Read talks, Rose hears a sound behind her. She turns to 
see a shadow rising out of the chair behind her. The shadow 
seems immense.

          READ (V.O.)
     Please, Rose, just drop the phone 
     and walk over to the door and run 
     outta that place as fast as you can. 
     You're not giving either of us a 
     chance to think. We don't need this 
     pressure... everything's so 
     confused... We've got to just clear 
     a space where we can be alone and 
     sit down and talk about everything 
     and figure out what to do... Rose? 
     Get out of there, get out right now!

The shadow approaches Rose, who lies as still as death on 
the sofa. The single man is finally caught by the edge of 
the mood light's glow, and Rose can see the dead black eyes, 
the drooling green saliva, the slack, hungry lips.

          ROSE
     Hart... I'm afraid!

The single man lunges for Rose's throat.

INT. MINDY'S APARTMENT -- NIGHT

Read screams into the phone.

          READ
     Rose! Rose!

He is in agony as he hears the sounds of Rose being torn 
apart at the other end of the line, but he is unable to take 
the receiver away from his ear, unable to desert Rose in her 
final moments. He screams insanely into the phone, this time 
incoherently, trying to make it stop, trying to cover it up. 
But it doesn't stop.

EXT. DOWNTOWN INTERSECTION -- DAWN

In the chill of early morning, an armed garbage truck moves 
through the city collecting bodies left in the aftermath of 
the night's anonymous violence.

                                   DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. MINDY'S STREET -- DAWN

On Mindy's street, just a few blocks away from Mindy's 
apartment, a garbage truck stops to collect a body covered 
with dried blood that has been dragged out on to the front 
steps of an apartment building. Before the garbage men can 
get the body, the sniper on the roof has to shoot a dog who 
is sniffing at the body.

The garbage men are then able to get to the body, spray it 
with disinfectant, spray the dog's body, and drag them back 
to the truck's compressor. As the body is dumped into the 
back of the truck, we see that it is possibly Rose's.

THE END




<!--
google_ad_client = "pub-1850297377568722";
google_ad_slot = "3498319287";
google_ad_width = 728;
google_ad_height = 90;
//-->







<!--
google_ad_client = "pub-1850297377568722";

google_ad_slot = "1873190141"; /* 160x600, created 9/13/10 */
google_ad_width = 160;
google_ad_height = 600;

//-->










All movie scripts and screenplays on "Screenplays for You" site are intended for fair use only.






