Two years after the events of the first film, Jason Bourne and Marie Kreutz are now in Palolem, India.
Still experiencing flashbacks about his former life as a CIA assassin, he records them in a notebook.

In Berlin, CIA agents subordinate to Deputy Director Pamela Landy are paying US$3 million for the "Neski files", documents on the theft of $20 million in allocation money seven years prior.
Kirill, an agent for Russia's Federal Security Service, plants Bourne's fingerprint to frame him, kills the agents, and steals the files and money for delivery to Russian oil oligarch Yuri Gretkov.
Kirill travels to Goa to kill Bourne, but Bourne spots him and flees with Marie.
As the couple drive away, Kirill attempts to shoot Bourne, but kills Marie by mistake.
Their vehicle goes off a bridge and into a river; Kirill assumes that Bourne is dead.

Bourne survives and leaves for Naples, Italy with money and passports.
After finding the fingerprint Kirill planted, Landy learns that it belongs to Bourne and subsequently asks Deputy Director Ward Abbott about Operation Treadstone, the defunct CIA program to which Bourne belonged.
Landy tells Abbott that the CIA agent who stole the $20 million was named in the Neski files.
Some years previously, Russian politician Vladimir Neski was about to identify the thief when he was supposedly murdered by his wife in a Berlin hotel.
Landy believes that Bourne and Treadstone's late supervisor, Alexander Conklin, were somehow involved.
She also believes that Bourne killed her two agents.
Both Abbott and Landy go to Berlin to capture Bourne.

In Naples, Bourne allows himself to be identified by security.
He subdues his CIA interrogator, copies the SIM card from his cell phone, and learns from a subsequent phone call about Landy and what she thinks Bourne did.
Bourne goes to Munich to visit the only other remaining Treadstone operative, Jarda, who informs Bourne that Treadstone was shut down after Conklin's death.
Jarda tries to incapacitate Bourne before an incoming CIA team arrives, but Bourne kills him, blows up his house, and escapes.
Bourne follows Landy and Abbott as they meet former Treadstone support technician Nicky Parsons to question her about her past experience with him.
Believing that the CIA is hunting him again, Bourne calls Landy and is told that he is being pursued because he killed two people in Berlin — though she is not referring to Bourne's recent flashbacks.

Bourne kidnaps Nicky at the Alexanderplatz, and learns from her that Abbott was the head of Treadstone, not Conklin.
He remembers that he murdered Neski in Berlin, but Parsons knows nothing about it.
Bourne visits the hotel where the killing took place and remembers more of his mission — he killed Neski on Conklin's orders, and when Neski's wife showed up, he shot her to make it look like a murder–suicide.
Abbott kills his own assistant when he suspects a conspiracy against Bourne, who breaks into Abbott's hotel room and records a conversation between him and Gretkov that incriminates them in the theft of the money.
Abbott confesses to ordering the assassination in Goa, Neski's murder by Bourne, and the murder of the agents by Kirill, for which Bourne was to be framed.
When Landy suspects Bourne's innocence and confronts Abbott, he commits suicide.
Bourne sends the tape of the confession to Landy, vindicating himself.

Bourne goes to Moscow to find Irena Neski, the daughter of Vladimir Neski.
Kirill appears and wounds Bourne in the shoulder.
Bourne reaches a car and Kirill engages him in a high-speed car chase, ending after Bourne forces his car into a concrete divider.
After seeing that Kirill is critically injured, he lowers his gun and walks away.
Bourne locates Neski and apologizes for murdering her parents.
Gretkov is arrested by Landy, using the evidence she got from Bourne.
Some time later, in New York City, she receives a phone call from Bourne; she expresses her thanks for the tape of Abbott's confession before telling Bourne his real name is David Webb and that he was born "4-15-71" in Nixa, Missouri.
Bourne tells her that she looks tired, indicating that he can see her, before hanging up and fading into a New York crowd.