Milo Boyd (Gerard Butler) is a former NYPD detective who now works as a bail enforcement agent (bounty hunter).
Milo's ex-wife, Nicole Hurley (Jennifer Aniston), is an investigative reporter who has been arrested for assaulting a police officer (As she later clarifies, she grazed a patrol horse with her car in trying to get to a press conference).

When Nicole receives a tip on a story she is working on — an apparent suicide may actually have been a murder — she skips her bond hearing to meet with her informant, causing the judge to revoke her bail and issue a warrant for her arrest.
Unfortunately, just before Nicole arrives, her informant, Jimmy (Adam Rose), is kidnapped.

Milo is ecstatic when Nicole's bail bondsman, Sid (Jeff Garlin), offers him the job of tracking down Nicole and bringing her to jail, for a bounty of $5,000.
After questioning Nicole's mother Kitty (Christine Baranski) (a cabaret singer in Atlantic City), Milo apprehends her at a race track in New Jersey, throws her into his car trunk and drives back towards Manhattan.
Nicole manages to escape briefly before he catches up with her again.

Meanwhile, neither is aware that they are being stalked: Milo by two thugs sent by a bookie named Irene (Cathy Moriarty), because of outstanding gambling debts; Nicole by criminal Earl Mahler (Peter Greene), who is connected with the story she is investigating, and both of them by Nicole's lovestruck coworker Stewart (Jason Sudeikis), bent on rescuing her from Milo.
Stewart, however, is confused with Milo by Irene's thugs and kidnapped in his place.

Earl catches up and tries to kill Nicole, but the two narrowly escape.
Milo is not interested in explanations until Nicole admits that she's found evidence that implicates their mutual friend and Milo's ex-partner on the police force, Bobby (Dorian Missick), is involved with Earl.
Angry, Milo decides to investigate the crime with her.

Clues from Earl's car lead them to a country club, where they learn from a caddy that he owns a tattoo parlor in Queens, so they start to make their way there.
Bobby warns the pair to stay off the road.

By coincidence, the nearest hotel is "Cupid's Cabin," the bed and breakfast where they spent their honeymoon.
They have feelings for each other and they both admit they have made mistakes [from the divorce].
She calls her mother on advice what to do.
When she is done, she comes out of the bathroom and overhears Milo telling Sid that he may or may not sleep with Nicole that night, but he's taking her to jail nevertheless.
Infuriated, she handcuffs Milo to the bed and makes her way to the tattoo parlor herself, finding Jimmy and freeing him before she is captured by Irene's thugs, still looking for Milo.

Milo manages to rescue her at a strip club.
He calls an old friend from the police force and learns that Bobby is on his way to the police's evidence warehouse, which is being relocated to a new building.
Bobby confronts Earl, who used to be his friend but has used Bobby's name to gain access to the warehouse and steal a large amount of confiscated narcotics and cash.
Bobby decides to arrest Earl, but Earl draws a gun and shoots him, though not fatally.
Milo and Nicole enter the warehouse and Milo is ambushed, but Earl is forced to surrender when Nicole points a shotgun at him.

Bobby explains that Earl was using him, as well as the man who supposedly committed suicide, to gain access to the warehouse.
There was no proof, so Bobby was waiting for Earl to make his move before arresting him.
Milo proudly notes that Earl might have gotten away with it if Nicole hadn't picked up certain clues.
He and Nicole appear to have reconciled.
They concede that sometimes their jobs have to come first.
By way of demonstrating this, Milo then turns Nicole into the police, so she can make her court hearing the next day.

On his way out of the precinct, Milo runs into a cop who insulted him earlier and punches him in the face.
He is arrested and put in a cell next to Nicole's.
He reminds her that it is their anniversary and they have to spend it together, no matter what.
Through the bars they admit their love to each other and kiss.