A man and his young son struggle to survive after an unspecified cataclysm has apparently killed most plant and animal life.
Civilization has collapsed, reducing the survivors to scavenging and in most cases cannibalism.
The duo search for supplies as they travel south on a road to the coast in the hope it will be warmer.
The man carries a revolver but just two cartridges.

A series of flashbacks reveals that the man's wife had given birth to the child shortly after the catastrophe.
The flashbacks show her deteriorating morale and physical condition in their home, eventually leading to the man cutting up floorboards for fuel.
Through the flashbacks and other scenes, it is revealed that they had been saving three bullets as a last resort in case of capture, allowing them to commit suicide.
When the man kills an intruder and is left with only two bullets, she states he has done this deliberately in an effort to avoid her suicide.
She eventually walks off into the cold with almost no clothing.

After shooting a member of a gang who inadvertently stumbles upon them, the man is left with only one bullet.
Later, exploring a large mansion, the pair discover prisoners in the basement; serving as a food supply for their absent captors.
When the armed cannibals return, the man and his son hide.
With discovery imminent, the man prepares to shoot his son, but the cannibals are distracted by the captives, and the pair get away.

Further down the road, they discover an underground shelter full of canned food and supplies.
They feast, bathe and groom themselves.
When the man hears rummaging noises around the entrance to the shelter, he decides they must leave.
They later encounter a nearly-blind old man on the road.
The son persuades his reluctant father to feed him something, and they share some time together.

Arriving at the coast, the man goes to scavenge what he can from a beached ship.
He leaves his son to keep watch, but the boy falls asleep and they are robbed of everything.
They chase the thief down, and the man demands to know why the thief has been following them.
The thief denies that he has been.
The father then takes everything from him, even his clothes.
The boy is upset about what is essentially a death sentence, and the father relents.
They go back, but cannot find the thief, so they leave behind his clothes and a can of food.

As they pass through a ruined town, the man is shot in his right leg with an arrow.
He kills his ambusher with a flare gun he found on the ship, leaving the archer's companion weeping over his dead body.
The man again demands to know why they were being followed, and the charge is again denied.
He is so weakened by the wound that they have to abandon their cart and most of their possessions.
When his condition deteriorates, he realizes he is dying.
He again emphasizes to his son the values of self-preservation and humanity.

After the father dies, the son is approached by a man who gives him the choice of joining him, a woman, their two children and their dog.
The family had followed the pair for some time out of concern for the boy.
The child joins them after being assured they are the "good guys".