Jackie Brown (Pam Grier) is a flight attendant for a small Mexican airline, the latest step down for her career.
To make ends meet, she smuggles money from Mexico into the United States for Ordell Robbie (Samuel L. Jackson), a black-market gun runner living in the Los Angeles area under the A.T.F.
's close watch.

Ordell learns that another of his couriers, Beaumont Livingston (Chris Tucker), has been arrested.
Fully aware that Livingston will become an informant in order to avoid jail time, Ordell arranges for his bail with bondsman Max Cherry (Robert Forster), then promptly coaxes Livingston into a car trunk and murders him.

Acting on information Beaumont had indeed shared, A.T.F.
agent Ray Nicolet (Michael Keaton) and L.A.P.D.
detective Mark Dargus (Michael Bowen) intercept Jackie as she returns to the U.S. with Ordell's cash and some cocaine that Brown was unaware was stashed in her bag.
Initially refusing to cut a deal, she is sent to jail on possession of drugs with intent to sell.
Sensing that Jackie may now be just as likely to inform as Beaumont had been, Ordell goes back to Max to arrange her bail.

Max arrives to pick up Jackie at the jail.
Only partly masking his attraction to her, he offers to buy her a drink and help determine her legal options.
Ordell later arrives at Jackie's house intending to murder her.
She surprises him by pulling a gun that she surreptitiously borrowed from Max's glove compartment.
Jackie negotiates a deal with Ordell to pretend to help the authorities while still managing to safely smuggle in $550,000 of Ordell's money, enough to allow him to retire.

To carry out this plan, Ordell is counting on Melanie Ralston (Bridget Fonda), a surfer girl he lives with who has little ambition past getting stoned and watching TV, and Louis Gara (Robert De Niro), a friend and former cellmate.
He also intends to use a naïve Southern girl, Sheronda (Lisa Gay Hamilton).

With Jackie acting as an informant, Nicolet and Dargus arrange a sting to catch Ordell, unaware that Jackie and Ordell have a plan of their own to divert the money before the authorities can make an arrest.
Unbeknownst to all, Jackie plans to double-cross everybody with the help of Max in order to keep the $550,000 for herself.

After a trial run, during which Nicolet could observe the operation, the stage is set for the actual event.
In a large shopping mall, Jackie enters a dressing room to try on a new suit.
Her role is to swap bags there with Melanie, supposedly passing off the $550,000 practically under Nicolet's nose.
Instead, the bag she gives Melanie contains only $50,000 and the rest is left behind in the dressing room for Max to pick up.
Jackie then feigns despair as she calls Nicolet and Dargus out from hiding, claiming Melanie took all the money and ran.

In the parking lot, Melanie annoys and mocks Louis until he loses his temper and shoots her.
Ordell discovers that Louis has only $40,000 in the bag (Melanie having kept $10,000 for herself after being tricked into doing so by Jackie).
Angry that his money has been stolen, as well as still unclear as to why Louis shot Melanie, and hoping she is dead and unable to tell on him, Ordell checks Louis’s gun magazine, finds that 2 bullets are actually lacking, and broods a moment over the unexpected turn of the events.
Outraged when Louis then casually mentions he just saw Max Cherry strolling in the store dress department where the exchange was being made, Ordell suddenly shoots Louis twice, goes out of the minibus, and slouches away with the bag.

Ordell has figured out that Jackie has betrayed him.
He turns his anger on Max, who informs him that Jackie is frightened for her life and waiting in Max's office to hand over the money.
A menacing Ordell holds him at gunpoint as they enter the office.
Jackie suddenly yells out that Ordell has a gun and he is shot dead by Nicolet, who had been hiding in another room.

In the clear with the law and in possession of the money, minus a 10% cut that Max is paid, Jackie decides to leave the country and travel to Madrid, Spain.
She invites Max to come along with her, but he declines, shaken by her set-up of Ordell.
Jackie kisses Max goodbye, shares with him a meaningful moment, and leaves.