In 2020, the first manned mission to Mars is launched.
The Mars I spacecraft is commanded by Luke Graham with fellow astronauts Nicholas Willis, Sergei Kirov, and Renée Coté.
Upon arrival, the team discovers a crystalline formation within a mountain in the Cydonia region.
The team suspects the formation could be an extrusion from a subsurface geothermal column of water, which would be the key to permanent human colonization.
After transmitting their finding back to the World Space Station orbiting Earth, they head for the site to do further analysis.
They hear a strange sound on their communications system, which they assume to be interference from their planetary rover.
While they scan the formation with radar, a large vortex springs up and kills Nicholas, Sergei and Renée.
Luke survives after being buried alive in the rocky debris.
After the vortex subsides, a large humanoid face is exposed within the mountain.
Luke uploads an emergency transmission to the REMO (REsupply MOdule) orbiting the planet.
After receiving Luke's garbled message, a second ship is readied for a rescue mission.

The crew of the Mars II recovery craft includes Commander Woody Blake, Co-Commander Jim McConnell, and mission specialists Terri Fisher and Phil Ohlmyer.
They are sent to investigate the tragedy and rescue Luke.
As the ship enters Mars orbit, a swarm of meteors collides with it, breaching the hull.
The crew works quickly to repair the damage, but the external fuel tanks are overlooked, causing a large leak and later, an explosion.
They quickly put on pressure suits and maneuver their way to the REMO orbiting the planet.
Woody concludes that the only hope of a successful rendezvous with the REMO is for him to launch himself directly at it using the remainder of his jet pack fuel, carrying a tether from the others.
He attaches the cord to the REMO, but is unable to properly land on it, floating toward the planet.
Terri tries to rescue Woody, but knowing she would run out of fuel before reaching him, Woody removes his helmet, killing himself to save her.

When the remaining group arrives on the surface from the REMO, they find Luke alive.
He has built a greenhouse and is living on its produce.
He tells the rescuers about his crew's find, and that the crystalline structure looks humanoid.
He has discovered that the noise they recorded represents a map of human DNA in XYZ coordinates, but missing a pair of chromosomes.
Jim suspects that the signal must be a test, inviting them to add the missing nucleotide sequence.

Wanting to complete the sequence, but worried about the earlier radar scan, the crew dispatches a robotic rover to reproduce the completed signal.
Following the transmission, an opening appears in the side of the mountain.
Jim, Terri and Luke head toward it, while Phil remains at the repaired emergency return vehicle with orders to launch, with or without them, at the agreed time.
The trio ventures inside and the opening seals them in, disrupting radio communication with Phil.
A three-dimensional projection of the solar system appears.
They see the planet Mars, covered with water, being struck by a large asteroid, the surface ruined.
A Martian then appears before the group.

The Martians evacuated their world in spacecraft following the collision.
All the vehicles headed out of the solar system except one which went to a lifeless Earth, leaving something in the ocean.
The display fasts forwards through millions of years, showing the evolution of fish, land mammals and eventually humans, who could one day land on Mars and be recognized as descendants.

An invitation is offered for one astronaut to follow them to their new home.
Jim decides to accept the invitation; the rest of the crew head back to the ship as Phil calls for them one last time before he is to take off.
Jim steps into a cylinder which fills with oxygenated liquid.
The rest of the crew reach Phil and they lift off.
As Jim is being prepared for what awaits him, he has a flashback of the important memories of his life.
Jim's ship blasts away and as it passes by his friends' earthbound capsule, they wish him luck on his voyage.