In 1936, archaeologist Indiana Jones braves an ancient booby trapped temple in Peru and retrieves a golden idol.
He is confronted by rival archaeologist René Belloq and the indigenous Hovitos.
Surrounded and outnumbered, Jones is forced to surrender the idol to Belloq and escapes aboard a waiting Waco seaplane.

Shortly after returning to Marshall College, where he teaches archaeology, Jones is interviewed by two Army intelligence agents.
They inform him that the Nazis, in their quest for occult power, are searching for his old mentor, Abner Ravenwood, who is the leading expert on the ancient Egyptian city of Tanis and possesses the headpiece of the Staff of Ra.
Jones deduces that the Nazis are searching for Tanis because it is believed to be the location of the Ark of the Covenant; the Nazis believe that if they acquire it, their armies will become invincible.
The Staff of Ra is the key to finding the Well of Souls, a secret chamber in which the Ark is buried.

The agents authorize Jones to recover the Ark before the Nazis.
Jones travels to Nepal, only to find that Ravenwood has died and that the headpiece is in the possession of his daughter, Marion, Jones's embittered former lover.
Marion's tavern is suddenly raided by a group of thugs commanded by Nazi agent Toht.
The tavern is burned down in the ensuing fight, during which Toht burns his hand on the searing hot headpiece as he tries to grab it.
Jones and Marion escape with the headpiece, with Marion declaring she will accompany Jones in his search for the Ark so he can repay his debt.

They travel to Cairo, where they learn from Jones's friend Sallah, a skilled excavator, that Belloq and the Nazis, led by Colonel Dietrich, are digging for the Well of Souls with a replica of the headpiece modeled after the scar on Toht's hand.
In a bazaar, Nazi operatives attempt to kidnap Marion; as Jones pursues, it appears that she dies in an explosion.
While deciphering the markings on the headpiece, Jones and Sallah realize that the Nazis have miscalculated the location of the Well of Souls.
Using this to their advantage, they infiltrate the Nazi dig and use the Staff of Ra to uncover the Well of Souls, which is filled with snakes.
Jones fends off the snakes despite his ophidiophobia and acquires the Ark, but Belloq, Dietrich, and the Nazis arrive to take it.
The Nazis toss Marion into the well with Jones and seal them in, but they manage to escape.
After a fistfight with a Nazi mechanic, blowing up a flying wing on the airstrip, and chasing down a convoy of trucks, Jones takes back the Ark before it can be shipped to Berlin.

Jones and Marion leave Cairo to escort the Ark to England aboard a tramp steamer.
The next morning, their boat is boarded by Belloq, Dietrich, and the Nazis, who once again steal the Ark and kidnap Marion.
Jones stows away on their U-boat and follows them to an isolated island in the Aegean Sea, where Belloq plans to test the power of the Ark before presenting it to Hitler.
Jones reveals himself and threatens to destroy the Ark with a bazooka, but Belloq calls his bluff, knowing Jones cannot bear to destroy such an important historical artifact.
Jones surrenders and is tied to a post with Marion as Belloq performs a ceremonial opening of the Ark, which appears to contain nothing but sand.
Suddenly, spirits resembling Old Testament Seraphim emerge from the Ark.
Aware of the supernatural danger of looking at the opened Ark, Jones warns Marion to close her eyes.
The apparitions morph into "angels of death" incinerate the Nazi soldiers along with Belloq and Toht.

In Washington, D.C., the Army intelligence agents tell a suspicious Jones and Brody that the Ark "is someplace safe" to be studied by "top men".
The Ark is permanently stored in a giant government warehouse among countless similar crates.