The story follows the life of 17-year-old Jack "Cowboy" Kelly, one of the hundreds of homeless and orphaned children who sold newspapers in New York City during the 1890s to support themselves.
Jack and his fellow newsboys, dubbed "newsies" for short, work for Joseph Pulitzer selling his newspaper, the New York World, on the streets of Manhattan ("Carrying the Banner").
Amid his daily routine, Jack meets David Jacobs, who's left school temporarily and joined the Newsies along with his younger brother, Les, to help support his family while his father is injured and out of work.
Jack, noting David's intelligence and Les' marketable cuteness, takes up a partnership with them in order to sell more papers and in turn earn more money.
Jack neglects to mention that he's somewhat of a fugitive, having made his own escape from Warden Snyder and "The Refuge," a correctional center for children.

When Jack has a run-in with Snyder on the street, he flees, along with David and Les, and they find themselves at Irving Hall, an entertainment hall Jack frequents when he needs a hideout.
He introduces Les and David to Medda Larkson, a vaudeville star who performs in the hall.
She invites the boys to stay and watch her performance ("Lovey Dovey Baby").
After leaving, they witness a violent segment of the trolley strike, and David invites Jack to meet his family, including his sister, Sarah, whom Jack becomes taken with.
After declining to spend the night, Jack confesses his desire to escape to Santa Fe ("Santa Fe").
As newspaper tycoons Pulitzer and William Randolph Hearst become more prominent, so do their competitive natures, and Pulitzer decides to inflate the Newsies' paper prices overnight to avoid having to make other cutbacks.
At this news, Jack and David, who have become good friends through their partnership, organize a strike along with the other outraged Newsies, who all fear they will not be able to bear the additional cost ("The World Will Know").

Jack and Les confront Pulitzer personally while the other Newsies deliver news of the strike to the other boroughs of the city in an effort to persuade them to join their cause.
A newspaper reporter, Bryan Denton, catches wind of the commotion in the streets and approaches David to inquire about the strike.
Meanwhile Jack and Les are thrown out of Pulitzer's quarters.
Denton takes an interest in the boys' story and takes them to lunch, telling them to keep him informed on their progress.
Afterwards, they head to Brooklyn, to try and gain the sympathy of the Brooklyn newsboys, run by the notorious Spot Conlon.
Spot does not join the strike, saying that he doesn't know if the Manhattan boys are serious enough about the strike.
Once back in Manhattan, Jack tells his newsies, and they think that the strike won't be successful without the help of Brooklyn.
David riles up the newsboys, making them more confident in themselves ("Seize the Day").
They boys head over to the distribution stand and destroy all the papers until the cops come.
Crutchy-another newsboy with a gimp leg- doesn't make it out in time and gets dragged away by the Delancey brothers.Jack and David go to the Refuge that night, knowing that it was where Crutchy was taken.
David dangles Jack in front of the window using a rope, and Jack tells Crutchy that they're going to break him out.
Crutchy tells Jack that he can't walk, due to the Delancey brothers hurting his other leg.
The next morning, the newsies try to stop the new newsboys who were trying to take their place, but police get brought in to outnumber and beat up the newsies.
When it looks like the newsies are about to get crushed, Spot Conlon leads the Brooklyn newsies in.
United, the two groups beat the police as Denton takes a victory picture.
As newsies are all lounge at a nearby restaurant, when Denton comes in with a newspaper with the Newsies and the strike on the front page.
The boys all dream of what they could get now that they've been on the front page of the paper ("King of New York").
To expand the strike, the boys decide to hold a newsie rally at Medda's.
Pulitzer learns about the rally, and wants to break it up, although he has no legal cause.
Snyder steps in and says that Jack Kelly is an escaped convict from the refuge, and that is reason enough to break it up.
Jack learns that the police are on his tail after Snyder looks for him at the Newsboy's Lodging House, and has to spend the night on the Jacobs' fire escape.
Sarah sees him and makes him breakfast on the roof.
Jack tells her about his want to go to Santa Fe and learns that whether he stays or goes matters to her and the Jacobs family.
The newsies hold their rally- it is successful until the police barge in ("High Times, Hard TImes").
The police beat the boys up mercilessly, as the boys try to protect Jack.
After a struggle, he is taken by the police.
The boys are taken to court where they all, excluding Jack, are fined five dollars.
During the case they realize that Jack had been lying to them about his identity with his real name being Francis Sullivan with a deceased mother and an incarcerated father.
As a result Snyder sentences Jack to four years in the refuge.
Jack is then taken to Pulitzer's office, while the rest meet with Denton at the restaurant.
Denton tell them that he was reduced from his position as a reporter on their strike, to his old job as war correspondent.
The boys are heartbroken, and from then on vow not to trust anyone but the newsies.
Pulitzer offers to let Jack off the hook from the refuge, and to give him money, as long as Jack works for him as a scab.
Jack sees no other choice after Pulitzer threatens to throw David in jail if he doesn't comply.
David, Mush, Les, Race, Blink and Boots wait outside to help Jack run, but Jack realizes that he has to stay for their own good and is thrown into a cell for the night ("Santa Fe (Reprise)").
Jack shows up the next day as a scab, and his friends are horrified.
The Delancey brothers tell Jack that they are going to beat up David, and Jack isn't allowed to do anything about it.
The brothers go after Sarah and Les, David comes to try and save them, but he gets beat up even more.
Jack sees the events unfolding and can't help but step in and beat up the Delanceys.
He knows it will result in him being thrown in the refuge, but he has to protect his friends.
David, Les, Jack and Sarah go to Denton's apartment, where they learn that the strike has not proved effective, as the city thrives on child labor.
As a result, they realize they must recruit not only the newsies, but also the workers of every child labor union in the city.
They decide to print their own newspaper-using Pulitzer's own printing press ("Once and for All").
The "Newsie Banner" is given to every working kid in New York, and they all come together to Newsie Square to support the newsies, leaving the city at a standstill.
Jack and David go to Pulitzer, who eventually gives in and agrees after realizing he allowed a print on strike matters, despite a ban he ordered.
Crutchy is released from the refuge and Snyder is arrested for keeping the refuge a secret from the government.
Denton tells Jack that Governor Theodore Roosevelt was grateful that Jack brought the strike to his attention and Roosevelt is offering to give him a ride anywhere.
Jack requests to be taken to the train station to catch a train to Santa Fe.
His friends are disappointed to see him leave, but Roosevelt convinces Jack to stay with his friends in New York City.
Sarah catches up to Jack and the two kiss while the Newsies celebrate.
[3][4]