On a school night at Herrington High School, a few teachers, the head football coach and the principal leave after just having a discussion about the school's budget.
Principal Drake (Bebe Neuwirth) having left her keys decides to go back for them.
In her office she is confronted by the coach (Robert Patrick) who attacks her with a pencil.
Drake flees to the main school doors and bumps into the drama teacher Mrs. Olsen (Piper Laurie) whom she pleads with to help her escape.
Seeing the coach running towards her, Drake makes it outside and shuts the doors with Mrs. Olsen's help.
After locking the coach in the school, Mrs. Olsen attacks Drake with a pair of scissors seemingly killing her.

The next day the main characters meet with Casey Connor (Elijah Wood) a photographer for the Herrington High School newspaper who is constantly picked on and has a crush on Delilah Profitt (Jordana Brewster) (the paper's editor and head cheerleader).
Delilah's boyfriend, Stan Rosado (Shawn Hatosy), quits the school's football team to pursue more academic ambitions, which angers Delilah into breaking up with him.
Zeke Tyler (Josh Hartnett), a student repeating his senior year who sells, among other illegal items, a cocaine-like drug of his own make, is confronted by Miss Elizabeth Burke (Famke Janssen), who expresses concern for him over his illegal activities.
Southern belle Marybeth Louise Hutchinson (Laura Harris), a new girl in school, attempts to befriend self-styled outcast Stokely "Stokes" Mitchell (Clea DuVall), who has deliberately spread rumors she is a lesbian even though she has a crush on Stan.
Marybeth, on the other hand, develops a crush on Zeke.

While eating lunch on the football field, Casey notices a strange creature on the field.
He takes it to Professor Furlong (Jon Stewart), where the specimen is examined and believed to be a new species of cephalopod-specific parasite called a mesozoan.
Delilah takes Casey into the teacher's lounge to find a story for the front page, where they hide in a closet and witness the coach and the drama teacher assault the school nurse (Salma Hayek) by forcing one of the creatures into her ear, as well as finding the body of Mrs. Brummel.
Casey and Delilah flee and Casey calls the cops.
Principal Drake claims nothing is wrong and that Casey is seeking attention.

The next day, Casey tells the others that he believes the teachers are being controlled by aliens, and goes to show them the creature he found, which is gone.
When confronting Furlong about the creature, he gets defensive and attempts to infect them.
Zeke cuts off Furlong's fingers before taking a pen full of his homemade drugs and injecting it into Furlong's eye, seemingly killing him.

Realizing Casey is right and with the whole school potentially infected, even the football team and Stan's friend Gabe (Usher Raymond), Zeke takes everyone to his house where he performs experiments with a captured alien creature and realizes that it needs water to survive and can be killed by his drugs because it is a diuretic.
Zeke makes everyone take some of his drug to prove they're human, but Delilah reveals herself to be infected and destroys Zeke's lab and most of his drug supply before escaping.

Acting on Stokes' speculation that killing the queen alien would revert everyone to normal, the group returns to the school, where their football team is playing a game and infecting opposing players.
Believing Principal Drake to be the queen, they isolate her in the gym and kill her.
Stan goes outside to see if it worked, but is infected by the coach.
With none of the drug left, Zeke realizes he still has some in his car and goes with Casey to get it.
Casey leads the infected students away from Zeke, who encounters Miss Burke in the parking lot and seemingly kills her when he makes his escape.

Casey returns to the gym, where Marybeth reveals herself to be the queen, having faked taking the test earlier.
Casey and Stokes flee into the pool where Stokes is injured and infected.
Zeke and Casey flee into the locker room, where Marybeth reverts to her human disguise (this time naked) and reveals that she is taking over Earth because her own planet is dying.
Zeke is knocked out.
Casey takes the drug and tricks Marybeth into following him into the retracting bleachers.
Casey traps Marybeth and stabs the drug into her eye, killing her.

One month later, everyone has returned to normal.
Stan and Stokes begin dating, and Zeke takes Stan's place on the football team (while Miss Burke affectionately watches him practice).
Casey begins dating Delilah, and has become a local hero.
Meanwhile, Professor Furlong is adjusting to life with one eye and missing fingers.