An American and Russian joint military operation results with Special Force Operatives leading the capture of General Ivan Radek (Jürgen Prochnow), the dictator of a rogue terrorist regime in Kazakhstan that had taken possession of former Soviet nuclear weapons.
Three weeks later, a diplomatic dinner is held in Moscow to celebrate the capture of the Kazakh dictator, at which President of the United States James Marshall (Harrison Ford) expresses his remorse that action had not been taken sooner to prevent the suffering caused by Radek, whose regime took the lives of 200,000 people.
He also vows that his administration will take a firmer stance against despotism and that they will never negotiate with terrorists.

President Marshall, along with his wife Grace (Wendy Crewson), daughter Alice (Liesel Matthews), and several of his Cabinet and advisors, board Air Force One to return to the United States.
U.S. Secret Service agent Gibbs (Xander Berkeley), acting as a mole for a group of six Russian Radek loyalists led by the ruthless Ivan Korshunov (Gary Oldman), sneaks them onto the plane disguised as news reporters.
Once in flight, Gibbs kills several Secret Service agents guarding the plane's armory, allowing Korshunov and his men to seize control of the plane.
When the attackers start a massive shootout, the pilots attempt to land the plane at Ramstein Air Base in Germany.
However, the terrorists breach the cockpit, shoot the pilots, and take control, diverting the plane towards Kazakhstan.
Secret Service agents take Marshall to an escape pod in the cargo hold, while the rest of the passengers are taken hostage by the hijackers.
Believing the President has escaped, the hijackers separate his wife and daughter from the rest of the hostages, planning to use them as leverage.

At the White House Situation Room, Korshunov contacts Vice President Kathryn Bennett (Glenn Close), threatening to shoot a hostage every half hour until Radek is released.
Meanwhile, the U.S. military locates the escape pod but finds it empty.
Unbeknownst to the hijackers, President Marshall, a retired military aviator, veteran of the Vietnam War, and Medal of Honor recipient, stayed aboard the plane to rescue the hostages.
He kills two of Korshunov's men and contacts the White House via satellite phone, reminding Bennett not to negotiate with the terrorists.
The hijackers request mid-air refueling after Marshall forces a fuel dump and secures the hostages.
Marshall sends a fax to the White House, instructing the tanker to force the plane to drop altitude so the hostages can parachute to safety without suffocating due to low oxygen level.
However, the terrorists discover the escape attempt and Korshunov forces the plane away from the refueling tanker, causing the fuel to ignite from the fueling probe and destroy the tanker.
He captures Marshall and the remaining advisors.

With Marshall and his family held hostage, Ivan tortures Marshall and explains his actions, saying that the collapse of the Soviet Union had ruined his country.
Bennett is forced to contact Russian President Petrov to endorse Radek's release.
Korshunov and his men celebrate as the event is broadcast over the plane's speakers, and Marshall escapes.
While Marshall shoots down the remaining terrorists, Korshunov takes Grace to the plane's parachute ramp, but is interrupted by Marshall.
Korshunov loses his weapon, and is strangled to death with the parachute chord.
Marshall then halts Radek's release, and Radek is fatally shot attempting to flee custody.

Marshall directs Air Force One towards friendly airspace, unaware that MiG-29s piloted by another batch of Radek loyalists follow them.
Escorting U.S. F-15s counterattack and drive off the planes, but Air Force One is rendered unable to land.
Marshall pilots Air Force One out toward the Caspian Sea to prevent civilian casualties, and a nearby patrolling U.S. Air Force Special Operations Command MC-130E Combat Talon is called in to rescue Marshall and the others via zip-line.
After his family and the injured Chief of Staff Lloyd Shepherd (Paul Guilfoyle) are evacuated, Marshall, Gibbs, and Major Caldwell (William H. Macy) remain on the plane, with time for only one to be rescued.
Gibbs, revealing that it was he who aided the terrorists in hijacking Air Force One, shoots the rescuer and Major Caldwell, and attempts to save himself on the last remaining zip-line.
Marshall overpowers him and attaches himself to the line, before the hook attaching it to the plane breaks off and the plane crashes into the water and breaks up, killing Gibbs.
The MC-130E crew reel in the President, thus making the MC-130E Air Force One.