In May 1962, dozens of wealthy passengers are dancing both in the ballroom and the deck of the Italian ocean liner, Antonia Graza, while an Italian woman, Francesca, sings "Senza Fine."
On the deck, a young girl, Katie Harwood, is sitting alone, until the ship's captain offers to dance with her.
Elsewhere, a hand presses a lever that unravels a thin wire cord from a spool.
The spool snaps and the wire slices across the dance floor like a blade, bisecting the dancers.
Only Katie is spared, due to her height.
The Captain's face splits open at mouth level as the top of his head falls off and Katie screams in horror.

40 years later, a boat salvage crew—Captain Sean Murphy, Maureen Epps, Greer, Dodge, Munder, and Santos are celebrating a recent success at a bar, when Jack Ferriman, a Canadian weather service pilot, approaches them and says he has spotted a mysterious vessel running adrift in the Bering Sea.
Because the ship is in international waters, it can be claimed by whoever is able to bring it to port.
The crew sets out on their ship, the Arctic Warrior, an ocean salvage tugboat.
They discover the ship is the Antonia Graza, which mysteriously disappeared in 1962 and was believed to be lost at sea, as both the crew and the passengers were never heard from again.
When they board the ship and prepare to tow it, they discover that it contains a large quantity of gold.
However strange things begin to happen.
Epps claims to have seen a little girl on the stairwell.
The crew find a digital watch on the bridge and Greer claims to have heard a woman singing throughout the ship.
Epps and Ferriman discover the corpses of another salvage crew.
They decide to leave the ship but take the gold, but an invisible force opens a gas valve in the engine room and the Arctic Warrior explodes as the engine is started, killing Santos and leaving them stranded.

They attempt to fix the Antonia Graza and sail it back to land, but the crew members are picked off one by one.
Greer meets Francesca, the singer who he heard, who seduces him and then leads him off a precipice to his death.
Captain Murphy, after entering the Captain's Cabin, comes across the ghost of the Antonia Graza's Captain, who explains that they recovered the gold from a sinking cruiseship Lorelei, along with a sole survivor.
He shows Murphy a picture of the survivor, who he is shocked to recognise.
He rushes to tell the rest of the crew, but a supernatural force causes him to see everyone he meets as the burned ghost of Santos, causing the crew to think he has gone mad and lock him in the drained fish tank.

Meanwhile, Epps meets Katie, who reveals what happened on the Graza; the sole survivor of the Lorelei convinced the crew of the Graza to murder the passengers, in order to claim the recovered gold for themselves.
Afterwards, one of the ship's officers turns on the rest of the crew, and kills them all, only to be killed himself by the singer, Francesca.
Another man then joined Francesca in an embrace and walked away as a large hook swung into her face, killing her.
The man is revealed (via photos Murphy received from the Graza's Captain) as Jack Ferriman, who is actually a demonic spirit who masterminded the massacre in 1962 and may have done something similar on the Lorelei.

Epps deduces that Ferriman lured the salvage team to the Graza to repair the sinking ship, and that the best way to fight him is to sink it.
She sets explosives, but is confronted by Ferriman, who has killed the last of her crew.
Ferriman describes himself as a salvager of souls; collecting souls is his job, which he says he earned by a lifetime of sin.
He explains that since Katie was a child and never committed a true sin, he can't control her as he does with the evil ghosts.
So long as the Antonia Graza remains afloat, he can continue to use it as a trap and keep his masters (and Satan) satisfied.
After a brief struggle, Epps detonates the explosives and sinks the Graza.
Katie helps Epps escape the rapidly sinking ship.
She is left in the debris as the souls trapped on the ship ascend to heaven; Katie stops to thank her.

After drifting on the open sea for some time, Epps is found by a cruise ship and taken back to land.
As she's loaded into an ambulance, she sees the battered crates of gold being loaded onto the cruise ship by Ferriman and members that look like but are not her fallen crew members.
Ferriman glares at her and carries on; she screams as the ambulance doors close.