The movie opens with a young woman getting up to mark a day on a wall calendar with a red X (the calendar already having a number of days marked this way).
As she reaches the calendar, dead hands punch through the brick wall and reach for her.
She awakens in fright.
Some time after the events of Dawn of the Dead, zombies have overrun the entire world.
The remaining fragments of the U.S. government and military hide out in fortified enclaves, attempting to find both survivors and a solution to the zombie outbreak.
Survivors Dr. Sarah Bowman (the woman from the first scene), US Army Private Miguel Salazar, and helicopter pilots William "Bill" McDermott, and John arrive in Fort Myers, Florida, encounter a large horde of the undead, and escape to an underground Army base in the Everglades, where a small group of scientists search for a way to stop or reverse the re-animation process, assisted by a skeleton crew of soldiers.
Dr. Logan, the lead scientist – also known as "Frankenstein" due to his experiments – believes that zombies can be trained to become docile, and accordingly has amassed a collection of test subjects, over the objection of base-commander Captain Henry Rhodes.
The tension between soldiers and scientists is worsened by dwindling supplies, loss of communication with other survivors, and a lack of progress in research.
During a zombie wrangling mission, two of the soldiers, Miller and Johnson, are killed after a zombie escapes its harness; whereupon Miguel attempts to kill the creature, but is bitten on the arm, which Sarah amputates to stop the spreading infection.
Rhodes then calls off the experiment and demands all specimens to be destroyed.

Dr. Logan, meanwhile, continues his research, being especially proud of "Bub", a docile zombie who remembers some parts of his past life.
Sarah is mortified when she learns that Logan has been using the bodies of dead soldiers as food to condition and reward zombies for positive behavior, and devises a plan to escape the complex with John, Miguel, and McDermott.
Their plans are thwarted by Capt.
Rhodes, who kills Logan; locks Sarah and McDermott inside the zombie corral; murders Dr. Fisher, a fellow scientist; and attempts to force John, their helicopter pilot, to fly them away from the complex, which he refuses.

Bub, having escaped his chain, finds the corpse of Dr. Logan, and in a display of human emotion, becomes enraged, while Miguel, who has become suicidal, allows the zombies to enter the complex and is devoured by the horde in the process.
While Pvt Steele and Pvt Rickles investigate, John overcomes Rhodes and Torrez, steals their weapons, and goes to find Sarah and McDermott.
After being left for dead by Captain Rhodes, Pvt Torrez and Pvt Rickles are brutally torn apart by the horde.
While trying to kill Bub, Pvt Steele is forced into a last stand, but gets bitten and chooses to kill himself.
Rhodes attempts to escape, but is wounded by Bub and violently torn in half by the undead while being still alive.
John reunites with Sarah and McDermott and they escape to the surface.
Sarah boards the helicopter, only to be attacked by a zombie inside; but wakes to find that the final undead attack on the three was a dream and that they are now living on a tropical island without infection.
Sarah observes John and McDermott on the beach, before crossing off another date on her calendar, this time marking days since their escape.