Under the watchful eyes of Father Silvano Bentivoglio (Carmen Argenziano) and Dr. Vittoria Vetra (Ayelet Zurer), the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) initiates the Large Hadron Collider and creates three vials of antimatter particles larger than any that have ever been produced before.
Almost immediately, Father Silvano is killed and one of the vials of antimatter goes missing.
At the same time, the Roman Catholic Church is mourning the sudden death of Pope Pius XVI in Rome and prepares for the papal conclave to elect the next Pope.
The Camerlengo Patrick McKenna (Ewan McGregor) assumes temporary control of the Vatican.
The Illuminati kidnap four of the 'preferiti' (the favourite cardinals to be elected pope) before the conclave enters seclusion and threaten to kill one candidate every hour and destroy all of Vatican City at midnight, using the missing vial of antimatter as a bomb.
The Vatican summons symbologist Robert Langdon (Tom Hanks) from Harvard University and Vittoria from CERN to help them save the four preferiti and locate the vial.

Langdon listens to the Illuminati's message and deduces that the four cardinals will die at the four altars of the "Path of Illumination," marked by statues of angels in locations relevant to the four classical elements.
Over the objections of Commander Maximilian Richter (Stellan Skarsgård), head of the Swiss Guard, but with McKenna's consent, Langdon is granted access to the Vatican Secret Archives.
He examines Galileo Galilei's banned book with Vetra.
Following the clues and accompanied by Inspector General Ernesto Olivetti (Pierfrancesco Favino), and Claudio Vincenzi (David Pasquesi) of the Vatican Gendarmerie Corps, they arrive at the Chigi Chapel in the Church of Santa Maria del Popolo.
There they find Cardinal Ebner (Curt Lowens) dead, suffocated with soil and branded with an ambigrammatic word "Earth".
They verify the second location is Saint Peter's Square but are unable to save Cardinal Lamassé (Franklin Amobi); his lungs punctured and his body branded with "Air".

While Vetra studies Silvano's diaries, Langdon and the Vatican officers locate the third church, Santa Maria della Vittoria, but are unable to save Cardinal Guidera (Bob Yerkes) from being burned to death.
His body is branded with an ambigrammatic word, "Fire".
The assassin (Nikolaj Lie Kaas) appears and brutally kills everyone except Langdon, who escapes.
Langdon and two Carabinieri officers (Victor Alfieri and Todd Schneider) race to the Water altar, the Fountain of the Four Rivers, where the assassin murders the officers and drops a bound and weighted Cardinal Baggia (Marco Fiorini) into the fountain.
Langdon, assisted by bystanders, saves the cardinal, who tells him the Illuminati's lair is Castel Sant'Angelo.
There Langdon and Vetra discover a hidden passageway leading to the Vatican, being used as a hideout for the assassin.
Discovering a case with marks for five branding irons, they realize the fifth brand is for the camerlengo but are confronted by the assassin before they can alert McKenna.
The assassin spares their lives, then cryptically warns them that his contractors were "men of God".
He escapes but is then killed when his car explodes.

Inside the Vatican, Langdon and Vetra find Commander Richter hovering over McKenna with a gun, the Vatican symbol branded into McKenna's chest.
Richter and Father Simeon (Cosimo Fusco) are shot by the Guards, and Langdon takes a key that slips from Richter's hand.
The stolen antimatter vial is found in St. Peter's Tomb below the church, but the battery life is too low to risk re-connecting it to a battery.
McKenna, a former military pilot, seizes the vial and uses an awaiting helicopter to fly above the Vatican.
At a high altitude, he parachutes out as the antimatter bomb explodes overhead.
McKenna is hailed a hero and savior, and the cardinals move to elect him pope.
Langdon and Vetra use Richter's key to watch a security video showing McKenna speaking to Richter before the attack.
The video reveals that it is McKenna, not the Illuminati, who masterminded the scheme; intending to use the incident to be named Pope and to rally the church's most conservative followers to his side.
The recording is shown to the Papal conclave, and when it dawns on McKenna that he has been exposed he flees to a remote recess in the building where he is able to commit suicide by setting himself on fire.

The Vatican officially announces that McKenna died due to internal injuries suffered during his parachute landing, and Cardinal Baggia is named Pope Luke I, with Cardinal Strauss as the new camerlengo.
Strauss thanks Langdon for his assistance and gives Langdon Galileo's "Diagramma Veritatis" for his research, requesting only that Langdon's will contain a bequest that it be returned to the Vatican, and that any future references he makes to the Catholic Church in his future publications be done "gently".