Danny Vinyard (Edward Furlong), a high school student and budding racist skinhead in Venice Beach, California, receives an assignment from Murray (Elliott Gould), his history teacher, to write a paper on "any book which relates to the struggle for human rights."
Knowing Murray is Jewish, Danny writes his paper on Adolf Hitler's Mein Kampf.
Murray attempts to get Danny expelled for doing this but principal Dr. Bob Sweeney (Avery Brooks) — who is black — refuses, instead informing Danny that he would study history and current events under Sweeney, and that the class would be called "American History X."
Danny's first assignment is to prepare a paper on his brother Derek (Edward Norton), a neo-Nazi skinhead leader who had just been released from prison after serving three years for involuntary manslaughter.
Danny is warned that failing to submit the paper the next morning would result in his expulsion.
The rest of the movie alternates between a series of vignettes from Danny and Derek's shared past (distinguished by being shown in black and white), and present day events (shown in color).

Derek and Danny's father is Dennis Vinyard (William Russ), a firefighter who displays racist tendencies in reaction to the news that Derek's English teacher, Dr. Sweeney, had assigned Richard Wright's novel Native Son.
Sent on a call to fight a fire in a drug den, Dennis is murdered by black drug dealers.
In a television interview conducted after Dennis's death, Derek erupts in a long racist tirade.
Shortly thereafter, Cameron Alexander (Stacy Keach) and Derek form a racist skinhead gang called the D.O.C.

A skilled basketball player, Derek is reluctantly dragged into a 3-on-3 game against three members of the Crips[citation needed], in which the prize was control of the recreation center basketball courts.
Derek and his friends won the game.
That evening, his mother Doris (Beverly D'Angelo) invites Murray, whom she is dating, home for dinner.
A dinnertime discussion about Rodney King and police brutality turns into a full-blown argument between Derek and Murray.
When Derek reveals his swastika tattoo and threatens Murray with violence for "invading his family", Murray leaves and Doris orders Derek out of her home.
That night, as Derek has sex with his girlfriend Stacey (Fairuza Balk), Danny hears people (the three black gang members whom Derek beat at basketball) attempting to steal Derek's truck.
Derek grabs a pistol and heads outside.
He shoots one of the thieves to death and curb stomps another.
Immediately arrested, Derek is sentenced to three years at the California Institution for Men in Chino.

Derek is given a job in the prison laundry and is assigned to be the partner of Lamont (Guy Torry), who is serving six years for assault.
Lamont stole a television set from a store and broke the arresting officer's foot when he accidentally dropped the television on it.
Lamont is a basketball fan and the pair develop a rapport.

In prison, Derek joins the Aryan Brotherhood but, after about a year, he becomes disillusioned with the racist gang, particularly over the group's hypocritical friendly relations with a Mexican gang member, and their trafficking in narcotics.
In response to Derek's criticisms, Aryan Brotherhood members savagely beat and rape him in the shower.
While recovering from the attack, Derek is visited by Sweeney, whom he asks for help to be paroled.
Sweeney informs him of Danny's involvement with neo-Nazis, and warns that he is on the same path as his older brother.
Sweeney confesses that he hated white people as a youth, but eventually realized that hatred is pointless.

Derek further distances himself from the Aryan Brotherhood and changes his outlook on life.
He spends the remainder of his time in prison alone, reading books that Sweeney sends him.
He fears that the prison's inmates will attack him, but they leave him alone, thanks to Lamont's persuasion.
Finally realizing the error of his ways, Derek leaves prison a changed man.

In the evening that Derek returns home from prison, he finds that Danny has a D.O.C.
tattoo.
Derek tries to persuade Danny to leave the gang.
Later that night, they both go to a neo-Nazi party, where Derek tells the leader, Cameron, that he and Danny will no longer associate with the neo-Nazi movement.
Cameron provokes Derek, who beats him up.
In response, Danny's neo-Nazi friend Seth Ryan (Ethan Suplee) runs after Derek and aims a pistol at him, which Derek wrestles from him and points at the angry crowd before running away.
Danny angrily confronts Derek, who tells him about his experience in prison, which seems to prompt a change in Danny.
Back at their home, they remove all the white power posters from their bedroom walls.

The following morning, Danny finishes his paper and Derek gets ready for a meeting with his parole officer.
Derek walks Danny to school before his meeting, and on their way they stop at a diner where they are met by Sweeney and a police officer.
They tell Derek that Alexander and Seth were attacked the previous night and have been hospitalized.

At school, Danny is confronted by a young black student named Little Henry, with whom he had a confrontation the previous day.
Little Henry pulls out a gun and shoots Danny in the chest, killing him.
When Derek arrives at the school, he runs into the bathroom and tearfully cradles his dead brother in his arms.