On October 14, 2011, Airline captain Whip Whitaker (Denzel Washington) awakens in his Orlando hotel room with flight attendant Katerina Márquez (Nadine Velazquez) after a night of sex, drinking, drug use, and very little sleep.
After using cocaine to wake up, he boards SouthJet Flight 227 as pilot to Atlanta.
After Whip threads the plane through severe turbulence at takeoff, copilot Ken Evans takes over while Whip discreetly mixes vodka in his orange juice and takes a nap.
He is jolted awake as the plane begins an uncommanded descent and the aircraft goes into a steep dive.
Unable to regain pitch control, Whip rolls the plane upside down to arrest the dive.
While this is happening in the cockpit, a young boy passenger is not seated properly so Katerina leaves her seat to save the child, ultimately causing her own death.

Meanwhile Nicole (Kelly Reilly) leaves her house to her drug dealer after begging for some heroin.
She is told it is very strong Afghan heroin and is told only to smoke it and use some cocaine to pick her up if she takes too strong a dose.
When she returns home she finds her door unlocked and enters to find her landlord.
She tricks him and locks him out, knocking over her box of drugs.
She injects the heroin and rapidly passes out.
As she is wheeled out of the house by a paramedic, the upside down SouthJet flies overhead.

On the plane, the engines fail and Whip realizes they will not make it to a runway, so he rolls the plane upright and just barely makes an emergency landing in a field in Clayton County, Georgia.
The wing clips the top of a church as it passes over.
Whip loses consciousness on impact and is dragged out of the aircraft by a passenger.

Whip awakens in an Atlanta hospital with moderate injuries and is greeted by his old friend Charlie Anderson (Bruce Greenwood), who represents the airline's pilots union.
He tells Whip that he saved 96 out of 102 people on board, losing two crew and four passengers, but a National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) official informs him Katerina was among those killed.
While sneaking a cigarette in the stairwell, Whip meets Nicole who is recovering from a heroin overdose and promises to visit her when they leave the hospital.
In the morning, his friend and drug dealer, Harling Mays (John Goodman), picks him up and sneaks him away from the hospital.

Whip drives to his late father's farm and dumps out all his alcohol.
When he meets Charlie and attorney Hugh Lang (Don Cheadle), they explain that the NTSB performed a drug test while he was unconscious showing that Whip was intoxicated.
The results could send him to prison on alcohol, drug, and manslaughter charges.
Hugh promises to get the toxicology report voided on technical grounds, but Whip leaves in a fury and seeks out Nicole.

He finds Nicole bailing on her lease, bribes her landlord not to pursue her, and brings her to the farm.
Nicole and Whip soon become intimate, but Whip begins drinking again while Nicole is trying to stay clean and sober.
He then attends the funeral of Katerina Márquez whereupon he encounters Margaret, the lead flight attendant from Flight 227.
Whip persuades Margaret to tell the NTSB that he was sober on the day of the crash.

Nicole brings him to a recovery meeting.
Whip leaves early to visit with his copilot Ken Evans who remains hospitalized, has recently come out of his induced coma, but remains severely injured.
He tells Whip that both his legs and pelvis are crushed and his has little to no chance of walking unaided and no chance of ever flying a plane again.
Whip is sympathetic towards Evans' injuries.
However Evans explains how he knew Whip was drunk and how he could smell the gin and vodka on Whip, but believes all people were put on Earth for a reason, and Whip's hasn't come as yet, therefore Evans will not tell the NTSB about Whip being drunk.
Nevertheless, when Whip offers to take Nicole for a ride the next day in the Cessna in his barn while holding a bottle of beer, she leaves him in the morning, leaving a note for him while he sleeps.
Whip goes into a rage and destroys some of his belongings.

Whip finds the media outside his farm's gate and drives drunk to the home of his ex-wife and son, who compel him to leave.
In leaving his wife's home, he is mobbed by the press and does not answer questions well.
Whip flees to Charlie's home and begs to stay with Charlie's family, vowing not to drink again before the NTSB hearing.
The night before the hearing, Whip is moved into a guarded hotel room to ensure he does not get drunk.
His minibar has only nonalcoholic beverages, but when he finds the door to the adjacent room unlocked, Whip discovers it has a full minibar.

Charlie and Hugh find him the next morning, passed out, and heavily intoxicated.
They call Harling, who revives him with cocaine for the hearing.
At the hearing, Ellen Block (Melissa Leo), the lead NTSB investigator, explains that a damaged elevator assembly jackscrew was the primary cause of the crash.
She commends Whip on his valor and skill, explaining that no other pilots were able to land the plane in simulations of the crash.

Then she reveals that two empty vodka bottles were found in the trash of the plane, but none were served to the passengers.
Only one of the crew's toxicology reports was positive for alcohol, although one was excluded.
Since Katerina's report was positive for alcohol, Block asks Whip if he believes that she drank it.
Rather than lie and permanently taint her good name, Whip admits that he drank it, that he flew intoxicated, and that he is intoxicated at that moment.

Thirteen months later, an imprisoned Whip tells a support group of fellow inmates that he is glad to be sober and does not regret doing the right thing, because he finally feels "free".
He tells the support group he lost his piloting license, but not his faith in telling the truth.
He has pictures of Nicole and other family and friends on the wall of his cell, along with greeting cards congratulating him on being sober for a year.
He is working to rebuild his relationship with his son, who visits to talk with him about a college application essay on "the most fascinating person that I've never met."
His son begins by asking, "Who are you?"
Whip replies "That's a good question."
As the screen cuts to black, a plane sound could be heard.