1962 Jackson, Mississippi.
Aibileen Clark (Viola Davis) is a 50-year-old black maid spending her life raising white children and recently lost her only son to an industrial accident.
Her best friend Minny Jackson (Octavia Spencer) is a black maid as well and outspoken, possibly due to having worked for such a long time for Hilly Holbrook's (Bryce Dallas Howard) mother, Mrs. Walters (Sissy Spacek), that they are very comfortable with each other.
She has great cooking skills.
Eugenia "Skeeter" Phelan (Emma Stone) is an independent thinking young white woman returning to the family plantation after graduating from the University of Mississippi[3] to find that her beloved childhood maid, Constantine (Cicely Tyson), has quit while she was away.
She is perplexed as she believes Constantine would not have left without writing her.

Skeeter's group attend college to find husbands; she is the only one who remains single and wants to pursue a writing career.
She lands a job with the local paper as a "homemaker hints" columnist.
Aibileen, the maid to her easily influenced good friend, Elizabeth (Ahna O'Reilly), is asked to help.
Increasingly, Skeeter becomes uncomfortable with the attitude of whites towards their "help", especially after Hilly's "Home Help Sanitation Initiative", a legislative idea for separate toilets for black domestic help because "black people carry different diseases to white people".

Skeeter has the idea of writing about the relationships between whites and their black help, especially as the black-maid raised children eventually take on the attitudes of their parents when they become adults.
The maids are very reluctant to cooperate, afraid of retribution from their employers, but Aibileen agrees.
Eventually Minny cooperates, just after being fired by Hilly for using the guest bath as instructed by Mrs. Walters instead of going out into a tornado to use the help's toilet.
Little interest is expressed by any other maids approached.

Hilly makes finding work difficult for Minny by saying she stole from her, which then causes Minny's daughter to leave school to work as a maid.
Minny eventually finds work with a working-class background outcast Celia Foote (Jessica Chastain), who is married to a wealthy socialite, Johnny (Mike Vogel), the ex-boyfriend of Hilly, and informs that she's pregnant.
Celia is clueless about cooking: for example, when Minny comes to interview, Minny asks if she was cooking something, because Minny smells burnt food in the air.

The relationship between Celia and Minny becomes very deep after Celia miscarries and she informs Minny that she and Johnny married because she got pregnant, but lost the baby a month later, and she also miscarried two other babies.
During a charity event at which, in an attempt to avoid a pouched stomach, Celia drinks only alcohol, she has an unfortunate confrontation with Hilly.
Their history is explained as well as why Celia is an outcast.

Skeeter submits the draft book to a New York City editor with Harper & Row, Elaine Stein (Mary Steenburgen), who advises her that more maids' stories need to appear, and that it has to happen quickly as the holidays are approaching and the newly developing Civil Rights movement may be short lived.
A culmination of the Medgar Evers assassination and Hilly having Minny's replacement arrested for stealing a diamond ring brings forth more maids than Skeeter could have hoped.
The maids realize that this could give them an opportunity to make known what they experience in life.

What Skeeter and the maids realize so late in their writing of the book is that some stories are very connected with particular maids and families, and begin to worry that they will be exposed.
Their worries are heightened following the assassination of President Kennedy.
Thus, Minny, as a form of "insurance," reveals her "Terrible Awful" story to ensure the employers will not retaliate lest they confirm family secrets: Minny retaliated for being fired and for slurs on her reputation by baking her renowned chocolate pie especially for Hilly, making it a point to keep Mrs. Walters away from it, lest her friend eat Minny's feces.
Hilly ate two slices of the pie before Minny told her what was in it, causing Mrs. Walters to break out in a laughing fit - for which Hilly subsequently locked her away in a convalescent home.
Minny is sure Hilly's influence over all the others will keep the employers from acknowledging the stories.

The last story needed before submitting the final draft was that of Skeeter and Constantine.
Her mother, Charlotte Phelan (Allison Janney), who is suffering from cancer, is confronted and reveals that in order to save face with other white women during a reception Constantine was barred from the house.
To make amends, the family sends Skeeter's brother to Chicago (where her daughter Rachel (LaChanze) lived) to bring her back since she left town the day after being barred.
They found out that she had died.
Skeeter is furious and brokenhearted.

The book is a success and the royalties are shared with the maids.
Skeeter's boyfriend becomes aware of the book's contents and splits up with her.
Minny confesses about the Terrible Awful to Celia, who finally sees Hilly for the manipulative bully she is.
Thinking that all is safe with the origins of the book, Hilly goes ballistic when a contribution from Celia to one of Hilly's charitable works is made out to "Two Slice Hilly."
At the time Hilly had just broken out with a canker sore and confronts Skeeter, but before much can be said, Charlotte questions Hilly's integrity and tells her to get off the property.
Charlotte comes to the conclusion that her independent daughter really is quite extraordinary and should be admired, especially when she takes a phone call intended for Skeeter from Elaine about being offered a job, and mother and daughter make peace with one another.

Celia thinks that she has adequately deceived her husband about bringing in Minny to help her manage the housekeeping.
When Johnny comes up the drive, Minny thinks he will go ballistic on her, and she runs terrified toward the house before he is able to catch up with her on foot and tell her that he really appreciates her coming into the household.
Celia shows Minny the tableful of food she has prepared and reassures her that there is a place for her there as long as she wants.
This gives Minny the courage to separate from her abusive husband, and she takes her children to live with Aibileen.

The conclusion of the film has Hilly back to her old ways: knowing she cannot have Aibileen imprisoned for her writings without exposing herself, she vindictively intends instead to frame her for the theft of some loaned silver cutlery.
Elizabeth attempts to let the issue pass but Hilly presses the issue to the point where she fires Elizabeth's help.
Aibileen has had enough of Hilly and denounces her as a godless woman never at peace and always vindictive.
Aibileen reassures Elizabeth's daughter Mae Mobley with the creed that she has said to all her charges, but then, compelled by Elizabeth, leaves for a new life.