Set in 1976, Jackie Moon is a singer who has used the profits from his one hit single "Love Me Sexy", to buy a basketball team in the American Basketball Association, the Flint Tropics,[3] becoming the owner, head Coach and starting power forward.
The ABA Commissioner announces a plan to merge the league with the National Basketball Association, but only four teams will move to the more established league.
The Tropics, the worst team in the league, are in danger of dissolving.
In response, Jackie argues that the teams with the four best records overall should be merged into the NBA.
The Commissioner reluctantly accepts Jackie's offer.

Now that the Tropics have somewhat of a shot to be an NBA franchise, Jackie trades away the team's washing machine to the Kentucky Colonels for Ed Monix, former backup point guard for the NBA Champion Boston Celtics.
Soon, the Commissioner reveals that as well as having a top-four record, the Tropics will also need a stable fan base and have an attendance of at least 2,000 fans at every remaining home game of the season.

Jackie begins to stage extremely desperate stunts, like wrestling a bear named Dewie after a basketball game.
[4] The Tropics begin playing better with Monix, as well as the increased intensity of Clarence Withers.
Monix soon takes over as offensive and defensive co-ordinator, as well as starting point guard, leaving Jackie merely the title of head Coach.
Monix trains the team rigorously with a play he calls the free play as the players are to run it, without the ball.

From Monix's training, the Tropics go on a winning run, moving them up from last to fifth.
Suddenly Jackie, now extremely excited about the possibilities in his grasp, gets a visit from the Commissioner.
The Commissioner tells the team that the NBA does not think that Flint has a large enough media market and will not allow the Tropics into the league even if they beat the first place San Antonio Spurs on Saturday.
Distressed, Jackie admits that he stole "Love Me Sexy" from a napkin his mother wrote on three weeks before she died.
Now realizing that all his assets, including the team, are basically stolen, Jackie trades Withers to the Spurs so that he may realize his dream in the NBA.
Monix inspires the team to leave everything on the court as, while they may not be able to continue the franchise after this season, they have come very far and still have a lot to prove.

Going into the Spurs game, which Moon declares the "MegaBowl", the Tropics are in fifth place and with a win they would make it into fourth, although they have no chance in making it into the NBA.
The game begins and the Jobes' Tropics fall behind quickly.
In the closing seconds of the first half, Jackie gets fouled hard by Spurs player Petrelli while going up for a shot and is injured.
Withers decides he has seen enough and rushes in to the Tropics locker rooms with the rest of the team, which angers the Spurs players and Coach.

During halftime, an unconscious Jackie imagines that he is in heaven with his mother.
He apologizes for stealing her song and then she gives him a weapon in order to win the final game of the franchise.
Awaking in the locker room, he tells the team what they are going to do to win.
Back on the court, the Tropics reveal their new weapon: the Alley-Oop.
With the return of Withers, it is very effective and he leads the charge.
At first, the referee calls the play a foul, but after some persuasion by Jackie and Monix, is soon convinced that it is a legitimate score.
The Tropics take advantage of this new strategy and begin coming back.
After the Spurs start defending against the Alley-Oop, Monix then takes a charge and calls for them to run the "Puke" with 12 seconds left and down by two points, 115–117.
The play gives Jackie the ball, but he gets fouled hard again with two seconds left.
Shooting granny style, Moon sinks the first basket.
The second rebounds off and Monix tips it in right at the buzzer for two points to score a victory for the Tropics.

The Coach of the Spurs offers Withers his position back on the team.
The now-former ABA Commissioner offers Jackie a position on the staff of the NBA Assistant Commissioner, as a marketing director.
Just as Jackie is about to accept, the Commissioner is mauled by the bear Jackie wrestled with earlier.