Shortly after moving to Los Angeles with his parents, seventeen-year-old Jim Stark (James Dean) enrolls at Dawson High School.
He is brought into the police station for public drunkenness, and when his mother, father, and grandmother arrive at the police station to retrieve him, conflicts in Jim's family situation are introduced.
His parents are often fighting; his father (Jim Backus) often tries to defend him, but Jim's mother always wins the arguments.
Jim feels betrayed both by this fighting and his father's lack of moral strength, causing feelings of unrest and displacement.
This shows up later in the film when he repeatedly asks his father, "What do you do when you have to be a man?"

While trying to conform with fellow students at the school, he becomes involved in a dispute with a local bully named Buzz Gunderson (Corey Allen).
While he tries to deal with Buzz, he becomes friends with a 15-year-old boy, John, nicknamed Plato (Sal Mineo), who was also at the police station the same night as Jim.
Plato idolizes Jim, his real father having abandoned his family, and experiences many of the same problems as Jim, such as searching for meaning in life and dealing with parents who "don't understand".
Jim meets Judy (Natalie Wood), whom he also recognizes from the police station, where she was brought in for being out alone after dark.
She originally seems unimpressed by Jim, saying in a sarcastic tone, "I bet you're a real yo-yo."

Jim goes on a field trip to the Griffith Observatory.
There he sees a dramatic presentation of the violent death of the universe.
After the show, he watches as the thugs slash a tire of his car; then Buzz challenges him to a knife fight, in which Jim is loath to take part until the gang taunts him as a "chicken" (coward).
He reluctantly takes part in the fight and wins, subduing Buzz by holding his switchblade up to his neck.
Both Jim and Buzz receive slight injuries while fighting.
The thugs challenge Jim to a "Chickie Run" with Buzz late that day, racing stolen cars towards an abyss.
The first one who jumps out of the car loses and is deemed the "chicken".
The "game" ends in tragedy for Buzz when a strap on the sleeve of his leather jacket becomes gets stuck on the car's door handle, preventing him from jumping out before the car goes over the cliff.

Jim tries to tell his parents what happened, but becomes frustrated by their failure to understand him and storms out of the house.
When Jim is seen trying to go to the police by some of Buzz's friends, they decide to hunt him down, and harass Plato and Jim's family to try to find him.
Judy and Jim go to an abandoned mansion; Plato finds them there, as he was the one who originally told Jim about the house.
There they act out a "fantasy family", with Jim as father, Judy as mother and Plato as child.
The thugs soon discover them, and Plato brandishes his mother's gun, shooting one of the boys, and shooting at Jim and a police officer, in a clearly unstable state.

Plato hides in the Observatory, which is soon besieged by the police.
Jim and Judy follow him inside, and Jim convinces Plato to lend him the gun, from which he silently removes the ammunition magazine.
When Plato steps out of the observatory, he becomes agitated again at the sight of the police and charges forward, brandishing his weapon.
He is fatally shot by a police officer as Jim yells to the police, too late, that he has already removed the bullets.
Plato is wearing Jim's jacket at the time, and as a result, Jim's parents (brought to the scene by police) think at first that Jim was shot.
Mr. Stark then runs to comfort Jim, openly weeping for Plato's death, and promises to be a stronger father, one that his son can depend on.
Thus reconciled, Jim introduces Judy to his parents.