Shy and luckless clerk Stanley Ipkiss (Jim Carrey) works at an Edge City bank.
He is tormented by nearly everyone except for his Jack Russell Terrier Milo and his co-worker Charlie Schumaker (Richard Jeni).
Meanwhile, gangster Dorian Tyrell (Peter Greene) operates a nightclub called the Coco Bongo while plotting to overthrow his Greek boss Niko (Orestes Matacena).
Tyrell sends his singer girlfriend Tina Carlyle (Cameron Diaz) into Stanley's bank to record its layout, in preparation to rob the bank.
Stanley is attracted to Tina, and she seems to reciprocate.
After being denied entrance to the Coco Bongo, he finds a mysterious wooden mask near the city's harbor.
Placing it on his face transforms him into a zoot-suited, green-faced, bizarre trickster known as The Mask, who is able to cartoonishly alter himself and his surroundings at will.
The transformed Stanley exacts revenge on some of his tormentors, including the auto mechanics who had ripped him off the night before and his bullying landlord Mrs. Peenman (Nancy Fish).
When a street gang attempts to rob him, he scares them by turning a balloon into a Tommy gun.

The next morning, Stanley encounters Lieutenant Kellaway (Peter Riegert), Detective Doyle (Jim Doughan), and newspaper reporter Peggy Brandt (Amy Yasbeck) investigating The Mask's activity.
Despite being sought by the police, he again becomes The Mask in order to steal money targeted by Tyrell and attend Tina's performance.
At the Coco Bongo, The Mask dances exuberantly with Tina, whom he ends up kissing.
Following a confrontation with Tyrell, The Mask flees, leaving behind a scrap of cloth belonging to himself.
Kellaway suspects that Stanley is behind the bank robbery, but Stanley dissuades him.
Stanley consults an expert on masks named Dr. Arthur Neuman (Ben Stein), who tells him that the object is a depiction of Loki, the Norse god of darkness and mischief.
Still later, Stanley transforms into The Mask again and meets Tina at the local Landfill Park.
He is interrupted by Kellaway and Doyle, who attempt to arrest him.
However The Mask distracts them by tricking a large group of Edge City police officers into joining him in a mass performance of the Desi Arnaz song "Cuban Pete".
Stanley flees with Peggy, but he is betrayed to Tyrell for a $50,000 bounty.

Tyrell tries on the mask and becomes a malevolent green-faced being.
Forced to reveal the location of the stolen money, Stanley is kept hostage in one of the mob's cars while Tyrell's henchmen reclaim the money.
Stanley is later handed over to Kellaway and Doyle, along with a green rubber mask, to be detained.
When Tina visits Stanley in his cell, he urges her to flee the city.
Tina thanks Stanley for treating her with respect and tells him that she knew that he was The Mask all along.
She tries to leave the city, but is captured by Orlando and Tyrell.
They take her to a charity ball hosted by Niko and attended by the city's elite, including the city's mayor, Mitchell Tilton (Ivory Ocean).
At the ball, the masked Tyrell kills Niko and prepares to destroy both the club and Tina.
Milo helps Stanley escape from prison, and bringing Kellaway as a cover and hostage, they go to the club to stop Tyrell.
After briefly securing the assistance of Charlie, Stanley is spotted by Orlando and captured.
Tina tricks Tyrell into taking off the mask, which is recovered and donned by Milo, turning the dog into a cartoonish pitbull who defeats Tyrell's men while Stanley fights Tyrell.

After recovering the mask, Stanley uses its abilities to save Tina by swallowing Tyrell's bomb and flushing Tyrell down the drain of the club's ornamental fountain.
The police arrive and arrest Tyrell's remaining henchmen, while Kellaway and Doyle try to arrest Stanley again claiming his real identity as The Mask.
Mayor Tilton arrives and debunks Kellaway's claims by announcing that Tyrell was The Mask the whole time because he was one of the victims that was taken hostage by the thug at Coco Bongo.
He tells Stanley that he is a hero, thanks him for saving lives, and orders the police to release him.
In a desperate attempt to prove Stanley was The Mask, Kellaway and Doyle try to claim off Milo for assisting in his escape, but Tilton is not in the mood for their antics.
He goes on to say that he will need to meet with both men in his office the next morning to discuss their early retirement.
All charges against Stanley are dropped, while Kellaway and Doyle must face Tipton's judgment.

The next day, as the sun rise, Stanley, Tina, Milo, and Charlie take the mask back down to the harbor.
Tina throws the mask into the water, and she and Stanley celebrate their victory with a kiss.
Charlie tries to retrieve the mask for himself, only to find Milo swimming away with it.