The film charts three seasons in the lives of Sara Goldfarb, her son Harry, his girlfriend Marion Silver and his friend Tyrone C. Love.

The story begins in Summertime.
Sara Goldfarb, an elderly widow living alone in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, spends her time watching infomercials hosted by Tappy Tibbons.
After a phone call announces she will be invited to participate in a game show, she becomes obsessed with regaining the youthful appearance she possesses in a photograph from Harry's graduation, her proudest moment.
In order to fit into her old red dress, the favorite of her deceased husband Seymour, she begins taking a regimen of prescription weight-loss amphetamine pills throughout the day and a sedative at night.
Despite Harry’s warnings about amphetamine dependence, she passionately insists that the chance to be on television has given her a reason to live.
When her invitation does not arrive over the Fall season, she increases her dosage but begins suffering from amphetamine psychosis, hallucinating that she is the principal subject of the game show and her refrigerator is a menacing, living monster.

Harry is a heroin addict; together with fellow addicts Tyrone and Marion, he enters the illegal drug trade around Coney Island.
With the money they make over the Summer, Harry and Marion hope to open a fashion store for Marion’s designs, while Tyrone dreams of making his mother proud by escaping the street.
However, at the beginning of Autumn, Tyrone is caught in the middle of a drug gang assassination, and Harry must use most of their money to post bail.
Increasing drug-related violence and arrests make it hard to obtain drugs, throwing Harry, Tyrone and Marion into a state of deprivation.
Growing more desperate, Harry convinces Marion to have sex with her psychiatrist in exchange for money, causing a rift in the relationship.
Meanwhile, Harry’s arm is becoming infected from unsanitary injection techniques.

As Sara’s sanity unravels, she takes the subway to visit the television studio in Manhattan.
The secretary at the studio calls a hospital, and Sara is involuntarily committed to a psychiatric ward where she undergoes unsuccessful medicative treatment, followed by electroconvulsive therapy only to lose her mind completely.
Harry and Tyrone set out for Florida to obtain drugs, but Harry’s increasingly infected arm forces them to visit a hospital in South Carolina, where they are arrested for skipping bail.
Tyrone must deal with hard labor, racist prison guards, and drug withdrawal, while Harry is taken to a hospital to have his arm amputated.
Back in New York, Marion meets with a pimp who gives her drugs in exchange for sex and puts her in sex shows to support her drug habit.
Harry has a recurring dream of Marion waiting for him at a pier at Coney Island, but awakens and realizes he is alone in the hospital with just one arm.

Lost in misery, each character curls into a fetal position.
In Sara’s dream, she wins the game show’s grand prize and meets Harry there.
In her fantasy, Harry is a successful businessman and engaged to Marion.
Sara and Harry hug and say how much they love one another through the cheers of the crowd and the glowing stage lights.