The film begins in a dark world, with a witch re-making a doll to resemble an 11-year-old girl named Coraline Jones.
Coraline Jones moves with her parents from their home in Pontiac, Michigan, to the Pink Palace, a dilapidated mansion renovated into an apartment building in Ashland, Oregon, which is also occupied by retired actresses Misses Spink and Forcible, and eccentric Russian acrobat, Mr. Bobinsky.
With her parents perpetually working on a gardening catalog and paying little attention to her, Coraline feels neglected and decides to explore their new home, meeting Wyborne "Wybie" Lovat, the grandson of the apartments' landlady; while exploring, Coraline finds a small door sealed off by a brick wall.
That night, Coraline is awakened by a mouse and follows it to the small door, where she discovers a long, dark corridor in the brick wall's place.
Coraline goes through it and finds herself in the Other World, a fantastical parallel version of the Pink Palace inhabited by doppelgangers of her parents, called the "Other Mother" and "Other Father", who strongly resemble her parents, but have black buttons for eyes.
These beings prove to be warmer and more attentive than Coraline's real parents (particularly the Other Mother, who does everything she can to impress Coraline).
Coraline falls asleep in the Other World, but when she awakens the next morning, she finds herself back in her old world.

Despite warnings of danger from her neighbors, Coraline continues to venture to the Other World at night to escape the doldrums of her real life, and is entertained by button-eyed "Other" versions of her neighbors, including a mute Other Wybie, who guides her through the Other World.
During her third visit, Coraline encounters a black cat from her own world (who has the ability to speak in the Other World), who warns Coraline of danger.
She disregards his warnings until the Other Mother invites her to live in the Other World forever... if she can sew buttons over her eyes.
Coraline is horrified and pretends to be tired and hurries off to bed, only to find herself still in the other world when she awakens.
She attempts to return through the door, but finds that the room containing the door is locked and is forced to break-in.
Inside, the door is blocked and the Other Mother awaits her.

Coraline doesn't like the other world now and demands to return home, but the Other Mother angrily reveals her true form as a monstrous witch, trapping Coraline in a small room behind a mirror.
There, she meets the ghosts of three children who'd lost their eyes and souls to the Other Mother; one of them is Mrs. Lovat's twin sister, who had gone missing as a child.
They plead with Coraline to avoid their fate and request that she find their eyes, which will free them from their imprisonment.
With the help of the Other Wybie, Coraline escapes to her own world, but finds that her parents have been kidnapped by the Other Mother.

Armed with a seeing stone (provided by the real Miss Spink and Miss Forcible), Coraline returns to the Other World and challenges the Other Mother to a game to find her missing parents and the eyes of the ghost children; she agrees to have buttons sewn in her eyes if she loses.
Coraline uses her seeing stone to find the ghosts' eyes and outwits the twisted inhabitants of the Other World guarding them.
She also finds her parents (who are trapped in a snow globe), but the ghost children speak to Coraline through the eyes, warning her the Other Mother will never let her go, even if she wins.
Thinking quickly, Coraline tricks the Other Mother into opening the door to the real world and escapes through it, closing the door on the Other Mother's hand, severing it.
Coraline finds her parents safe with no recollection of what happened and the ghost children at peace, but not long after they warn her the Other Mother will still try to retrieve the key.
To keep the Other Mother from returning, Coraline intends to drop the key to the door between her world and the Other World down a water well near her house; the Other Mother's severed hand, however, enters Coraline's world and tries to steal the key.
Wybie arrives to help her, and the two destroy the hand.
They then drop the remains (and the key) down the well.
With her parents done with their work and able to spend time with their daughter, Coraline holds a garden party with her family and neighbors, including Wybie's grandmother.
Coraline plans to tell Miss Lovat (Wybie's grandma) her adventure and what really happened to her twin sister.
The movie ends with Coraline content with her new life.