In a Roman Catholic convent near Montreal, Canada, during evening prayers, the nuns hear screams coming from the room of Sister Agnes, a young novice.
Agnes is found in her room bleeding profusely, and in a wastepaper basket there is a dead baby with its umbilical chord wrapped around its neck.

Sister Agnes is suspected of killing the baby, so psychiatrist Martha Livingston is assigned by a court to determine if she is sane.
In an interview, Agnes claims she doesn't remember being pregnant or giving birth, and shows a lack of understanding of how babies are conceived.
Mother Miriam tells Dr. Livingston that Agnes is an "innocent" who was kept at home by her mother and knows nothing about the world.
She is desperate to keep Agnes naive, and declares that she couldn't have known what pregnancy was or remember the father.

Mother Miriam tells Dr. Livingston about the time Agnes stopped eating in the belief she was getting fat, and then exhibited stigmata in her hand that healed itself within a day.
Agnes takes Dr. Livingston to her favorite place, a bell tower at the convent.
They argue about Agnes' mother and birth, and how much Agnes knows about sex and pregnancy.

Mother Miriam tells Dr. Livingston that Agnes must have conceived on January 23rd, because that is the night Agnes burned her bedsheets.
While looking around the convent grounds, Dr Livingston comes across a barn full of statues of angels and saints.
She and a young monsignor argue about whether Martha's lack of faith will leave her unable to treat Agnes with dignity.
Dr Livingston learns that Agnes' mother sexually molested Agnes and that she is Mother Miriam's niece.

Dr. Livingston receives permission from the court to hypnotize Agnes, but Mother Miriam is strongly against it, believing it will strip her of her innocence.
While hypnotized, Agnes admits she gave birth and that another woman in the convent knew she was pregnant, but will not reveal who.
Dr. Livingston discovers that a secret tunnel connects the convent's chapel with the barn.
Mother Miriam tries to have Dr. Livingston removed from the case, but she appeals to the police and is retained.

Dr. Livingston obtains a second court order to put Agnes under hypnosis again.
Mother Miriam admits that she knew Agnes was pregnant and put the wastebasket in her room, but denies she killed the baby.
Under hypnosis, Agnes reveals that she used the tunnel to go see "Michael" in the barn.
Under questioning, she appears to describe being raped by a man.
Suddenly, Agnes exhibits stigmata in her hands, and begins bleeding profusely.
Agnes declares that God raped her, and that she hates God for it.
She admits that Mother Miriam was present when the baby was born, and that she killed the child because she believed it was a mistake.

Agnes is found not guilty by reason of insanity.
She tells the judge that she heard a man singing beneath her bedroom for six nights in a row, and then on the seventh night he lay on top of her.
In a voiceover, Dr. Livingston admits she does not know if Agnes' song represents a real man who came to her, or whether the singer is merely a symbol of hope to a girl who has lived a terrible life, but she wants to believe that Agnes was blessed by God somehow.