Bruce Nolan (Jim Carrey) is a television field reporter for WKBW-TV in Buffalo, New York, but desires to be the news anchorman.
He is passed over for the promotion in favour of his co-worker and rival, Evan Baxter (Steve Carell).
He rages during a live on-air interview which leads to his suspension from the station.
He is then hit by a series of misfortunes including being assaulted by a gang of thugs and crashing his car.
Bruce complains to God that He isn't doing His job correctly.

Bruce receives a message directing him to an empty warehouse where God (Morgan Freeman) appears.
God offers Bruce His powers to prove that He is doing his job correctly.
God tells Bruce not to tell others he has God's powers nor use the powers to alter free will.
Bruce is initially jubilant and uses his newfound abilities for personal gain, such as impressing his girlfriend Grace Connelly (Jennifer Aniston) (including using an invisible rope to pull in the moon and create a romantic backdrop, unknowingly causing a tsunami in Kitamoto City in Japan as a result), taking revenge on the gang that assaulted him, and getting his job back.

Bruce then alters the news scripts, causing Evan to embarrass himself on-air.
This results in Evan being sent back to his reporting job and Bruce being installed as the new anchor.
To celebrate, Bruce invites Grace out to the restaurant that they went to on their first date.
Grace believes that he will propose to her and is very disappointed when he only informs her of his promotion.

Bruce begins hearing voices in his head that (at first) he cannot understand.
God explains that the voices are prayers meant for God that Bruce must deal with.
He also confronts Bruce on using the powers for personal gain and not for helping people.
Bruce creates a computerized email-like system to receive the prayers and respond.
He finds that the influx is far too great for him to handle – even though Bruce is only receiving prayers from the Buffalo area.
To save himself time, Bruce sets the program to automatically answer every prayer as Yes, without regard for the consequences.

When Grace arrives at the party celebrating Bruce's promotion, she finds Bruce and his co-anchor Susan Ortega (Catherine Bell) kissing, after she had forcefully come on to him.
Grace flees and Bruce follows her, but she refuses to believe it was a misunderstanding.
As Bruce looks around, he realizes that the city has fallen into chaos due to his actions.
Bruce returns to God and asks how people can all act this way after he gave them what they wanted.
God gives Bruce some words of wisdom: "If you want to see a miracle, be the miracle."
Bruce returns to his computer and unplugs the prayer system.
He then resigns his job and proceeds to help people without using God's powers.

Grace's sister Debbie (Lisa Ann Walter) stops by to retrieve her things and sees how Bruce has changed.
She informs him that every night Grace prays, and that usually it's for him.
Bruce reactivates the prayer computer to search for Grace and finds many prayers asking for his success and wellbeing.
As he reads them, another prayer from Grace arrives, asking not to be in love with Bruce anymore.

Saddened, Bruce walks alone on a highway in a thunderstorm.
He asks God to take back the powers and to remove his fate from his own hands.
Bruce is suddenly struck by a truck and, upon regaining consciousness, finds himself in a white void (presumably Heaven).
God appears, and asks Bruce what he really wants; Bruce says that he only wants to make sure that Grace finds a man who makes her happy.
God agrees, and Bruce finds himself miraculously alive, bruised and bandaged in the hospital.
Grace arrives and the two rekindle their relationship, later becoming engaged.
After his recovery, Bruce returns to field reporting, but now takes more pleasure in the simple stories and interviews.