Derek Charles (Idris Elba) works for a finance company and is married to Sharon Charles (Beyoncé Knowles).
While Derek is at work, he greets temporary worker Lisa Sheridan (Ali Larter), who—believing Derek was flirting with her—attempts to seduce him throughout the film.
Derek repeatedly rejects her, but Lisa continues to pursue him, making sexual advances on him at the Christmas party and flashing him in his car.
Derek intends to report Lisa to his firm's human resource management, but learns that she has quit her job.
Thinking that Lisa has given up, Derek is annoyed when he receives flirtatious emails from her.
Derek and his workmates visit a resort for a conference, where he spots and confronts Lisa, who spikes his drink.
Incapacitated, Derek is helpless when Lisa follows him into his hotel room and kisses him.
He confronts Lisa again the following day, and hours later discovers her lying naked in his bed after attempting suicide by drug overdose.

After repeated attempts to reach Derek on his phone, Sharon finds Derek at the hospital and suspects that he and Lisa had an affair, as Lisa claims.
Detective Monica Reese (Christine Lahti) at first questions Derek's fidelity to Sharon as well, but soon becomes skeptical of Lisa's claims, due to inconsistencies in her side of the story, and informs Derek of her belief in him.
Sharon kicks Derek out of their house, and Derek moves into a separate apartment.
Months later, Derek and Sharon meet up for dinner and finally reconcile.
Meanwhile, Lisa tricks the babysitter Samantha (Scout Taylor-Compton) into letting her in under the pretense of being one of Sharon's friends.
When Derek and Sharon return home after dinner, they discover that Lisa had been in the house and seemingly abducted Derek and Sharon's infant son, Kyle (Nathan and Nicolas Myers).
Derek goes to his car with the intent to pursue Lisa, only to find the baby safe and sound sitting in the back seat.
Derek and Sharon immediately take Kyle to the hospital for a check-up.
When Derek and Sharon return home from the hospital, they find Lisa has trashed their bedroom and removed Sharon's face from their family portrait.
Sharon leaves a threatening voice message on Lisa's phone, and she and Derek set up a home alarm system.

Lisa learns that Derek and Sharon will be going away from town for a few days, with Sharon leaving one afternoon and Derek the next day.
While Sharon is on her way to pick up Kyle, she realizes that she forgot to set the alarm system and returns home.
Meanwhile, Lisa breaks into Derek and Sharon's house again and decorates the master bed with rose petals.
While setting the alarm, Sharon hears Lisa in the bedroom.
Sharon goes up to the bedroom and confronts Lisa who tries making her believe that Derek was seeing Lisa.
Sharon doesn't buy and tells Lisa that she is calling the police, but Lisa tackles her to the floor, and the two engage in a fistfight.
Derek calls his house and Lisa answers; he calls Detective Reese and they both head toward the house.
Lisa runs to the attic and Sharon pursues her.
Sharon leads Lisa to a weak spot in the attic floor, where Lisa falls through.
Sharon reaches out in an attempt to grab Lisa and help lift her up, but Lisa refuses and pulls Sharon down with her.
Seeing that the floor is beginning to buckle, Sharon manages to pry Lisa off of her arm.
Lisa falls onto a chandelier, breaking her fall, but soon lets go and smashes onto the glass table below.
The chandelier falls on and kills Lisa.
Derek and Detective Reese arrive as Sharon comes out of the front door.