The film opens with a montage of scenes reflecting work at Slate & Co., with dinosaurs using rocks for quarry mines.

Cliff Vandercave (Kyle MacLachlan), the executive vice president of industrial procurement of the company, explains to his co-worker Sharon Stone (Halle Berry) that he will swindle the company and flee with its fortune, and suggests Fred Flintstone (John Goodman) to help carry out his plans, which leads into a montage of the opening credits of The Flintstones.

While Fred leaves work for the day, Barney Rubble (Rick Moranis) is overjoyed that he is about to become a father because Fred loaned him money so he could adopt a child.
After returning home, Fred is questioned by his wife, Wilma (Elizabeth Perkins) about missing money from the bank account and confesses that he loaned the money to Barney so he and his wife, Betty (Rosie O'Donnell) could adopt a child.
After adopting a cave boy named Bamm-Bamm, Barney appreciates what Fred did for him and is determined to pay him back.
While taking the exams, Fred fails it, and is dissatisfied and upset since he will be unable to give Wilma the wealthy life she used to have.
To pay him back for giving him the money to adopt Bamm-Bamm, Barney (who did well on the exam) swaps his with Fred's and Fred is promoted to Vice President.

On Fred's first day as an executive, Cliff brings him to his new office.
Cliff also has Stone appointed as his secretary knowing that Fred's attraction to her will lead him astray to the plot.
Cliff has Fred fire Barney because of his exam score, Fred tries to refuse to fire Barney, but Cliff warns him if he doesn't fire Barney, not only will Cliff fire him, but Fred would be fired too, Fred told Barney about his exam score and promises that he will help him with money.
Cliff proposes a new machine that will do all of the quarry work and increase the company's income.
Fred is concerned about the operators losing their jobs.
Cliff plans to have a fake version of the machine built then flee with the money gained from the machine, and frame Fred for it.

Fred nearly figures out about Cliff's plan, so Stone aggressively seduces him and Fred finally gives in to his desires, but is interrupted by Wilma.
The Rubbles move into the Flintstones' house, causing tension between the Flintstones and the Rubbles, while the Flintstones' wealth increases.
While out at a restaurant, Barney, now working as a busboy, sees on the news that Fred has dismissed all of the quarry operators.
He confronts him about it, and their argument leads to Barney revealing that he switched their tests.
The Rubbles move out of the house and Wilma leaves Fred.

Fred eventually discovers Cliff's plan and then runs away and is walking around Bedrock in a disguise, and the disguise is exposed by an angry mob of the unemployed quarry operators, they chase Fred all over Bedrock until they caught him and attempt to hang him and Barney (who showed up in a Sno Cone truck that played The Jetsons theme song) once they find out it was because of him that Fred was promoted to the job.
Fred and Barney reconcile while Wilma, Betty and the office dictabird arrive at the scene, Fred and The Dictabird explains what happened, Then the mob decides to release Fred and Barney after finding out that Cliff was the one who really fired them, When the Flintstones and Rubbles return home, they find out that Cliff had broken into The Flintstones' home and kidnapped Pebbles and Bamm-Bamm and Cliff demanded that the Dictabird be brought back to the quarry in the morning and warns the Flintstones and Rubbles not to call the police.

The next morning Fred and Barney arrive and hand the Dictabird to Cliff and then they find Pebbles and Bamm-Bamm tied up near Cliff's machine, Fred tries to stop the machine while Barney tried to save the kids.
Meanwhile Cliff attempts to kill the dictabird, but is knocked out by Stone, who had realized Cliff's eventual betrayal.

While Barney rescues the kids, Fred uses the catapult to destroy Cliff's machine, causing Cliff to be killed in a mixture of water and crushed rocks.
Stone is arrested, but Fred promises to vouch for her after the way she helped them.
Mr.
Slate (Dann Florek) proclaims his love of the substance that Cliff was trapped in, deciding to name it after his daughter Concretia, and declares the Stone Age over with its creation.
Slate offers Fred the presidency of a new division in the company, but Fred turns it down in exchange for his old job back, Slate rehiring all the workers, and adding a few other improvements to the workplace he had originally desired as an executive.

The film then closes with a montage of the end credits of the original series.