Jack (George Clooney), a gunsmith and contract killer, and his lover Ingrid (Irina Björklund) are relaxing in Sweden.
Jack becomes alarmed by a single pair of footprints in the snow.
Sniper gunshots soon ring out.
Ingrid watches Jack pull a gun from his pocket and shoot the approaching sniper.
Knowing his identity is in jeopardy, Jack shoots and kills Ingrid.
He flees to Rome and contacts his handler Pavel (Johan Leysen), who insists that Jack cannot stay in Rome.
Pavel gives him the keys to a car and sends him to Castelvecchio (a small town in the mountains of Abruzzo).
Jack becomes nervous, and, disposing of the cell phone which Pavel had given him, goes to nearby Castel del Monte, Abruzzo, instead.

While in Abruzzo, Jack contacts Pavel, who sets him up with another job.
He meets Mathilde (Thekla Reuten), who wants him to build a custom-designed sniper rifle for an assassination.
He also begins patronizing a prostitute, Clara (Violante Placido), and they begin a relationship separate from her business duties.
Jack meets with Mathilde to test the weapon, and she is impressed by the craftsmanship, but asks that Jack make a few more adjustments.
Later, Jack realizes that he is being followed by an assassin from Sweden, whom he kills.

Jack is tormented by dreams of the events in Sweden and regrets killing Ingrid.
His relationship with a local priest Father Benedetto (Paolo Bonacelli) causes him to question his life choices.
Both Mathilde and Clara notice Jack's association with butterflies, Mathilde by his expertise on endangered butterflies and Clara by his prominent tattoo.
When Father Benedetto tells Jack he senses he lives in a special kind of hell, "a place without love", Jack begins to allow himself to feel love for Clara and envisions a life with her.

Jack talks to Pavel one last time, asking how the Swedes have possibly found him.
His paranoia grows to the point that even Clara comes under suspicion when Jack discovers a small pistol in her purse.
While on a picnic, he sees Clara reach into her bag and he retrieves a gun from inside the picnic basket; ultimately, she takes a tube of sunscreen from her bag and asks a greatly relieved "Edward" to put some on her back.
In the car, Jack questions Clara about the gun and is satisfied with her explanation (to defend herself, since there have been newspaper reports of murdered prostitutes).
She asks him to take her home with him, but Jack refuses.

Jack agrees to deliver the weapon to Mathilde as his last job, but at the last moment he reopens the briefcase and deliberately sabotages the rifle.
At the drop-off, Jack becomes suspicious that Mathilde plans to kill him.
Before anything can happen, a busload of school children arrives, and the two separate.
While driving away, Mathilde is contacted by Pavel, who asks if she has killed Jack.
She tells him she has not, but insists that she is following Jack and will kill him.

Clara meets Jack at a religious procession in town.
Jack asks her to go away with him and she agrees.
Mathilde attempts to assassinate Jack from a nearby rooftop, but the rifle backfires and explodes in her face.
Seeing Mathilde fall from the roof, Jack gives Clara an envelope full of cash and tells her to go to a river where they had picnicked and wait for him.
He runs to Mathilde, who is dying on the pavement, and discovers that she also works for Pavel.

As Jack goes to meet Clara, he notices that Pavel is following him.
They exchange gunfire, and Pavel is killed.
As Jack drives to meet Clara at the river, he feels his abdomen and realizes he has been shot.
Jack arrives at the picnic spot and as he sees Clara, he collapses.
Clara screams and runs to the car.
A white, endangered butterfly flits skyward from Jack's car as his fate is left ambiguous.