Back to the Future Part III

Transcript

Transcribed by Marty McFly Freak; Screenplay by Robert Zemeckis and Bob 
Gale. View pictures from the film here.

Saturday

November 12, 1955

10:03 PM

Scene: The clock tower episode in 1955, changed because of Marty II's 
interference.

DeLorean and Marty I speeding 88 miles per hour from Back to the Future 
I, getting sent back to 1985 as in the conclusion of the first movie.

Marty I: Doc!

The Marty from the first movie gets sent back to the future. The 1955 
Doc (the 1985 Doc has already gone back to 1885) dances with delight 
because the experiment was successful.

Doc: AHHH!! AHH!! HA! HA! HAHAHA!

The Marty from Back to the Future II (the one that continues with us 
throughout this movie w/o us missing any events in his timeline) runs 
towards Doc.

Marty: Doc! Doc! Doc! DOC! DOC! Doc spins around and sees him. He is in 
shock.

Doc: AHH!

Marty: Okay, relax Doc, it's me, it's me, it's Marty!

Doc: No it can't be you...I just sent you back to the future!

Marty: I know, you did send me back to the future, but I'm back, I'm 
back from the future!

Doc: Great Scott! He faints.

Marty: Doc. C'mon.

Credits scroll for Back to the Future III.

Marty is shown driving Doc home in the pouring rain following the 
lightning, bringing him home. He hangs the letter from the Doc in 1885 
over the fire to dry. Then they show the next morning, with Marty 
sleeping in a chair with his feet on a stool over the hoverboard, and 
Doc lying sleeping on a couch. The TV has been on all night but hasn't 
been working because of the storm until now. Suddenly, TV service 
resumes.

TV: Hey kids what time is it? Howdy Doody time!



Doc gets up and clutches his head.

Doc: Great Scott! Ooh...Howdy Doody time!

Doc goes over to the recorder and begins recording his "Diary".

Doc: Date, Sunday, November 13th, 1955 7:01 AM. Last night's time 
travel experiment was apparently a complete success. Lightning struck 
the clock tower at precisely 10:04 pm sending the necessary 1.21 
jigowatts into the time vehicle, which vanished in a brilliant flash of 
light leaving a pair of fire trails behind. I therefore assumed that 
Marty and the time vehicle were transported forward through time into 
the year 1985. After that...after that...I can't recall what happened. 
I don't even remember how I got home! Perhaps the jigowatt discharge 
coupled with the temporal displacement field generated by the time 
vehicle caused a disruption of my own brain waves resulting in a 
condition of temporary amnesia. Indeed I now recall the moments after 
the time vehicle disappeared ... into the future ... I saw a vision of 
Marty saying, "I've come back from the future." Marty gets out of his 
chair, with Doc facing his back to him, and starts walking towards Doc. 
Undoubtedly this was some sort of -

Marty: Hey Doc. Doc. Grinning, waving. Doc spins around and is in 
shock.

Doc: AHHH! AHH! AHH! 

Doc trips over the hoverboard trying to get away from Marty, crashes 
into the piano, and is sitting on the keys. Discordant music comes from 
the piano.

Marty: Doc, calm down, OK? Just calm down, it's me, it's Marty.

Doc: No! It can't be you I just sent you back to the future!!

Marty: But I came back from the future, remember? Last night you 
fainted... I brought you home.

Doc: This can't be happening! You can't be here! It doesn't make sense! 
I don't believe you are here.

Doc runs into bathroom, slams door leaving Marty outside.

Marty: I am here, and it does make sense. I came back to 1955 with the 
you from 1985 to get a book back from Biff. So once we got the book 
back, you...that is the you from 1985...were in the DeLorean when it 
got struck by lightning and you got sent back to 1885!

Doc: 1885? Opens door. It's a very interesting story, Future Boy, but 
there's one little thing that doesn't make sense. If the me in the 
future is now in the past, how could you possibly know about it?

Marty: You sent me a letter. Shoves letter in Doc's face.



Scene: Doc's house a few minutes later. Doc is reading the letter.

Doc: "Dear Marty: If my calculations are correct, you will receive this 
letter immediately after you saw the Delorean struck by lightning. 
First, let me assure you that I am alive and well. I have been living 
happily these past eight months in the year 1885. The lightning bolt 
that hit the DeLorean caused a jigowatt overload which scrambled the 
time circuits, activated the flux capacitor, and sent me back to 1885. 
The overload shorted out the time circuits and destroyed the flying 
circuits. Unforunately, the car will never fly again." He pauses at 
this and turns to Marty in amazement. It actually flew!

Marty: Yeah, well, you had a hover conversion done in the early twenty-
first century.

Doc: Incredible! He goes back to reading. "I set myself up as a 
blacksmith as a front while I attempted to repair the damage to the 
time circuits. Unfortunately, this proved impossible because suitable 
replacement parts will not be invented until 1947. However, I've gotten 
quite adept at shoeing horses and fixing wagons!" Doc turns over to 
Marty again. 1885! Amazing. I actually end up as a blacksmith in the 
Ol' West.

Marty: Grinning. Pretty heavy, huh?

Doc: Reading again. "I have buried the DeLorean in the Delgato mine 
adjacent to the old Boot Hill Cemetery as shown on the enclosed map. 
Hopefully it will remain undisturbed and preserved until you uncover it 
in 1955. Inside, you will find repair instructions. My 1955 
counterpart" - that's me - "should have no problem repairing it so you 
can drive it back to the future. Once you have returned to 1985, 
destroy the time machine." He looks to Marty questioningly. Destroy it?

Marty: Uncomfortably, he takes the model car from BTTF I (the one Doc 
used to demonstrate how Marty from the first film would return to 1985 
and accidentally burned and threw in the wastebasket) from the trash 
can, looks at it and puts it back. Yeah, well, it's a long story, Doc.

Doc: "Do not - I repeat - do not attempt to come back here to get me. I 
am perfectly happy living in the fresh air and wide open spaces, and I 
fear that unnecessary time travel only risks further disruption of the 
space-time continuum. And please take care of - Einstein for me." 
Again, he turns to Marty with a question in his voice. Einstein?

Marty: He's your dog, Doc - Einstein - it's what you call your dog...in 
1985. He walks over to a chess set, in front of which Copernicus, Doc's 
1955 dog, is sitting, and begins playing the game.

Doc: Doc smirks and continues reading. "I know you will give him a good 
home. Remember to walk him twice a day and that he only likes canned 
dog food. These are my wishes. Please respect them and follow them. And 
so, Marty, I now say farewell and wish you Godspeed. You've been a 
good, kind, and loyal friend to me and you made a real difference in my 
life. I will always treasure our relationship, and will think on you 
with fond memories, warm feelings and a special place in my heart. Your 
friend in time, 'Doc.' Emmett L. Brown." 

Doc: This says September 1st, 1885. I never knew I could write anything 
so touching.

Marty: Standing up and going over to Doc. I know, I know Doc, it's 
beautiful.

Copernicus whines.

Doc: Oh, it's all right, Copernicus! Everything's going to be fine.

Marty: I'm sorry, Doc, it's all my fault you're stuck back there. I 
never should've let Biff get to me.

Doc: There are plenty worse places to be than the Old West. I could've 
ended up in the Dark Ages. They probably would've burned me at the 
stake as a heretic or something. Let's look at the map. It says here 
the time vehicle is buried here in a side tunnel. We may have to blast.

Scene: Near a cemetery, Marty and Doc blow up the opening to a cave.

Marty: Whoa. I think you woke up the dead with that blast. Very ironic 
statement although Marty doesn't know it.

Doc: Take this camera... I want to document everything!

Scene: Inside the cave, using flashlights trying to find the spot where 
the DeLorean is hidden.

Doc: This reminds me of the time I attempted to reach the center of the 
earth. I'd be reading my favorite author, Jules Verne. I spent weeks 
preparing for the expedition, I didn't even get this far. Of course, I 
was only 12 at the time. It was the writings of Jules Verne that had a 
profound effect on my life. I was 11 when I first read 20,000 Leagues 
Under the Sea. That's when I realized that I must devote my life into 
science.

Marty: Doc... check it out... look at this. He found a little cranny in 
the cave with wooden planks covering it, marked by an "ELB".

Doc: My initials... just like in Journey To The Center of the Earth! 
That means the time machine must be right through this wall.

Doc and Marty chop through and find the DeLorean, covered with a sheet, 
inside.

Doc: Sighs. It's been buried here for 70 years, 2 months, and 13 days. 
Astounding.

Scene: Just outside the area in the cave where the DeLorean is hidden, 
Marty is reading the letter out loud and Doc is staring with a 
magnifying glass at the time circuit control microchip.

Marty: "...As you can see, the lightning bolt shorted out the time 
circuit control microchip. The attached she-she..."

Doc: Schematic.

Marty: "...schematic diagram will allow you to build a replacement unit 
with the 1955 components, thus restoring the time machine to perfect 
working order."

Doc: Unbelievable, that his piece of junk could be such a big problem. 
No wonder this circuit failed... it says, "Made in Japan."

Marty: What do you mean, Doc? All the best stuff is made in Japan.

Doc: Unbelievable!



Scene: At night. Doc and Marty are outside the cave now, near the 
cemetery, loading stuff onto Doc's pickup truck (pick up truck? They 
had those in 1955?)

Doc: You know, when I was a kid I always wanted to be a cowboy. Now, 
knowing I'll spend my future in the past it sounds like a wonderful way 
to spend my retirement years. It just occurred to me...since I end up 
in 1885 perhaps I'm now in the history books. I wonder...could I go to 
the library and look myself up in the old newspaper archives?

Marty: I dunno, Doc, you're the one whose always saying, you know, it's 
not too good to know too much about your own destiny.

Doc: You're right, Marty ... I know too much already. Better that I not 
attempt to uncover the circumstances of my own... future. Calling out 
for his dog, about to get into the car. Copernicus! Come home boy!

Marty: I'll get him Doc. Copernicus!

Whining.

Marty: Come on, let's go home, boy.

Whining.

Marty: What's wrong? What's wrong, Copernicus, come on, let's go home. 
Come on. Marty finds Copernicus whining in front of a tombstone. He 
quickly shines the flashlight on the tombstone writing but doesn't seem 
to notice it, although to the audience it is quite clear that it is 
marked "Here Lies Emmett Brown." Seconds later, he returns carrying 
Copernicus keeps his flashlight on the tombstone.

Marty: DOC! DOC! Come here! Quick!

Doc runs out from the car and sees Marty stooping at the tombstone.

Doc: What's wrong, Marty? You look like you've seen a ghost.

Marty: You're not far off, Doc. Look at this.

Doc: Apparently reading the tombstone and clutching his chest appearing 
to go into convulsions. Oh! Great Scott!

Marty: Check this out. "Died, September 7th, 1885." That's one week 
after you wrote the letter! "Erected in eternal memory by his beloved 
Clara." Spins around to face Doc, stands up. Who the hell is Clara??!!

Doc: Marty, please don't stand there!!

Marty: Oh, right, sorry. I gotta get another picture. Takes picture of 
tombstone.

Doc: "...shot in the back by Buford Tannen over a matter of 80 
dollars!" What kind of a future do you call that?!

Scene: Library at night, apparently the library is closed. Lights are 
turned off, the only light in the room is one of those desk-light 
things Marty is standing at looking at old newspapers while Doc 
searches for more things.

Marty: Reading. "Buford Tannen was a notorious gunman whose short 
temper and a tendency to drool earned him the nickname Mad Dog. He was 
quick on the trigger and bragged that he had killed 12 men, not 
including Indians or Chinamen."

Doc: Does it mention me? Am I one of the twelve?

Marty: Just a minute. "However, this claim can not be substantiated 
since precise records were not kept after Tannen shot a newspaper 
editor after printing an unfavorable story about him in 1884." That's 
why we can't find anything.

Doc: Bringing out a book of old family pictures. Look ... the William 
McFly family. Your relatives?

Marty: My great-grandfather's name was William. Lays finger over 
photograph of his ancestor. That's him. Good looking guy. Note: Michael 
J. Fox is playing Marty and in the photograph, Michael J. Fox is posing 
as William. Obviously the writers are using this connection to make a 
joke.

Doc: McFlys...but no Browns!

Marty: Look, Doc, maybe it was mistake. Maybe that grave wasn't yours. 
There could've been another Emmett Brown back in 1885. Did you have any 
relatives here back then?

Doc: Shaking head. The Browns came to America in 1908, and then they 
were the Von Brauns. My father changed our name in World War I.

Marty: Doc! Look! Thumbing through photos, he has found a picture of 
Doc on September 5, 1885 in front of the brand new clock now in the 
clock tower.

Doc: Oh! Great Scott! It's me! Then it is true. All of it. It is me who 
goes back there...and gets shot.

Marty: It's not gonna happen Doc. Doc looks at him quizzically. After 
you fix the time circuits and put new tires on the DeLorean, I'm going 
back to 1885 and I'm bringing you home.

Scene: At a drive-in outside of Hill Valley. Marty is in the bathroom 
getting dressed in a Western costume while Doc is outside preparing the 
DeLorean.

Doc: The clothes fit?

Marty: Calling out from inside. Yeah! Everything except the boots, Doc. 
They're kind of tight! I dunno, are you sure this stuff is authentic?

Doc: Of course. Haven't you ever seen a Western?

Marty: Coming out, shown dressed in a ridiculous pink outfit probably 
used in early un-authentic Westerns. Yeah, I have Doc, but Clint 
Eastwood never wore anything like this.

Doc: Clint who?



Marty: That's right. Points finger at a movie poster, the first Western 
movie starring Clint Eastwood. You haven't heard of him yet.

Doc: Marty, you have to wear the boots. You can't wear those futuristic 
things in 1885. You shouldn't even be wearing them in 1955. Indicating 
his Nike's.

Marty: All right, Doc, look. Once I get there I'll put them on, I 
promise.

Doc: Okay, I think we're about ready. I put gas in the tank, your 
future clothes are packed, just in case fresh batteries for your 
walkie-talkies. Oh, and what about that floating device?

Marty: Hoverboard.

Doc: Alright. Picking up Hoverboard and putting it in the DeLorean.

Marty: You know Doc, it's gonna be a hell of long walk back to Hill 
Valley from here.

Doc: It's still the safest plan. After all, we can't risk sending you 
back to a populated area, or to a spot that's geographically unknown. 
You don't want to crash into some trees that once existed in the past. 
This is all completely open country! So you'll have plenty of run-out 
space when you arrive. Remember where you're going there are no roads. 
There's a small cave over there which will be a perfect place to hide 
the time vehicle. Well, the new time circuit control tubes are warmed 
up! Starting up DeLorean. Time circuits on. I wrote the letter on 
September 1st, so we'll send you back the very next day. September 2nd, 
that's a Wednesday. September 2nd, 1885, 8 AM. I get shot on Monday the 
7th, so you have 5 days to locate me. According to my letter I'm a 
blacksmith, so I probably have a shop somewhere. Calling out. All you 
have to do is drive the time vehicle directly towards that screen 
accelerating at 88 miles per hour. 

Marty: Wait a minute, Doc. If I drive straight towards the screen, I'll 
crash into those Indians. Indicating a mural painting of Indians behind 
the movie screen.

Doc: Marty. You're not thinking fourth dimensionally! You'll instantly 
be transported to 1885, and those Indians won't even be there.

Marty: Right.

Doc: Well, good luck, for both of our sakes. See you in the future. 
Pats Marty on the shoulder.

Marty: You mean the past.

Doc: Exactly! Running out away from DeLorean near the small building w/ 
bathrooms. He will use a pistol to start Marty off. Happy trails Marty! 
Ready Marty?

Marty: Starting up car. Ready!

Doc: Set!

Marty: Mumbling while he pulls the lever into driving mode. Hi ho 
silver.

Doc shoots pistol. Marty drives toward the screen. The Back to the 
Future theme is played.

Doc: Viya con dios!

Marty is transported through time right before he is about to crash 
into the Indian mural. He figures the Indians are gone, but he sees 
ahead, a tribe of REAL war Indians whooping and riding directly towards 
him.

Marty: INDIANS!



Now the audience can hear the Indian drumbeat.

Marty: AHHHH!! He spins around for a while and finally spots the cave 
Doc had talked about earlier. The cave! He drives toward the cave and 
watches the Indians and their horses leaping over the cave away from 
something. Marty, thinking he's safe, ventures out and climbs up to see 
nothing. Suddenly he hears a trumpet playing and a bunch of cowboys 
riding directly towards him.

Marty: Shit, the cavalry!! Gets back into cave. Once he sees that the 
coast is clear, he looks over the DeLorean and sees an arrow that an 
Indian shot into the car. He pulls it out and stoops to look 
underneath, and sees liquid dripping from the bottom of the car. Damn, 
I ripped the fuel line.

He opens the DeLorean wing doors and takes out his boots and a tiny 
photo of Doc's tombstone, stuffing the latter in his back pocket. He 
stands there for a moment, not doing anything. Suddenly he hears the 
sound of a bear roaring. He looks up to see a giant brown bear standing 
only a few yards away from him.

Marty: AHHH!! AHH!!

Bear roars again and stands up on hind legs.

Marty: AHH!! AH! AH! WHO WHO! He runs away from the bear and out of the 
cave, dropping his boots along the way. The bear sniffs curiously at 
the boots and stops, nosing through it. Marty, however, keeps running 
while looking at the bear and trips, sliding down a hill. He tries to 
stop but he can't. UH! He crashes at the bottom of the hill on a 
farmer's fence and instantly passes out.

Seamus: Maggie! We see a boot shot of Seamus first, then the rest of 
his body. He is also played by Michael J. Fox. He talks with an Irish 
accent. Fetch some water, we got a hurt man here!

Scene: Darkened room with bed.

Marty: Mom...Mom, is that you?

Woman's Voice with Irish accent: There there now, you've been asleep 
for nearly 6 hours now.

Marty: I had this horrible nightmare. It was terrible. I dreamed I was 
in a western...I was being chased by Indians. And a bear.

Woman's Voice: Well, you're safe and sound, here now at the McFly farm.

Marty: McFly farm! AHH!! Sits up in bed. He is in a log cabin, a single 
room with a bed. A woman is sitting at a desk on a chair near the bed. 
Well you're my-my - my... suddenly realizing that although he knows the 
last name, he doesn't know which member of the family this is. Who are 
you?

Woman: Name's McFly. Maggie McFly.

Marty: McFly. Gulping. Maggie.

Maggie: That's Mrs. McFly, and don't you be forgettin' the misses! And 
what might your name be sir?

Marty: Well, it's Mc- Suddenly realizing he shouldn't let her know that 
they are related. Marty recalls the conversation he had with Doc in 
1955. ...Eastwood...uh...Clint...Clint Eastwood? Grinning sheepishly.

Maggie: No-nonsense, practically. You hit your head, Mr. Eastwood. Not 
too serious, but lucky for you, Seamus found you when he did.

Marty: Seamus. Incredulously.

Maggie: Me husband. Explaining. Gets up to leave the room. You'll be 
excuse me Mr. East-wood, while I tend to William.

Marty: William. He gets up and checks to see that his pants are still 
on (after all, that episode in BTTF I wasn't too pretty.) He goes out 
to see Maggie bouncing a crying baby in her arms, cooing.

Marty: That's William?

Maggie: Aye! William Shaun McFly, the first of our family to be born in 
America! Ahh, its okay Will! Here's Mr. Clint Eastwood...this is him. 
William is staring at Marty and has stopped crying. Maggie looks at 
Marty. He already likes you, Mr. Eastwood.

The door flies open.

Seamus: Maggie. Slams a dead deer down on the table. I got supper.

Scene: The McFly Farm Dinner Table.

Seamus: I'm not one to pry into a man's personal affairs but how is it 
that you came to be way out here, without a horse? Or boots? Or a hat?

Marty: Well my car - horse broke down and buried my boots. And I guess 
I just forgot my hat.

Maggie: How could you forget a thing like your hat? Would you like some 
water?



Marty: Yeah, thanks. Maggie pours him a glass of pink stuff. Marty 
stares at it.

Seamus: I'll tell you what I'll do, Mr. Eastwood. I'll help you find 
your blacksmith friend. You can stay the night in the barn. And 
tomorrow, I'll take you as far as the railroad tracks...you can follow 
them straight on in into town. Marty spits out seeds from some sort of 
bread onto his plate. I'll even give you a hat.



Maggie slams down plate at the kitchen counter, and crosses herself in 
the Catholic fashion.

Marty: That's great. Thanks.

William begins crying again and Seamus gets up to hold him.

Seamus: Ahh. Woogie William. Woogie William. Ohh, yes. Sits down at 
table again with William and talks to Marty. I think you'll find the 
barn comfortable. I've never had any complaints about it from the pigs. 
Laughs.

Maggie: Seamus. A word with you.

Seamus: Aye. Stands up and reaches his full arms out to Marty. Will you 
hold him for a minute? He hands William to Marty (MICHAEL J. FOX TO 
MICHAEL J. FOX!!) and then goes to the corner of the room to talk to 
Maggie.

Maggie: You sure you're not after bringing a curse on this house, 
taking him in like that. Such a strange young man.

Seamus: Aye, but I've just got a feeling about him Maggie. It's the 
right thing to do. It's important. Look how the baby takes to him. 
Little Will never takes to strangers. It's almost as if...he's 
connected to us.

Marty: Talking to the baby. Hey, Will. So you're my great-
grandfather...the first McFly born in America. Raises Will up to see 
urine pouring between his legs. And you're peeing on me.

Scene: Near the train station. Marty is walking toward a sign. He 
whistles in respect, and walks on through into a bustling town. The 
sign reads "Hill Valley." He walks around and there are lots of shots 
of the town in 1885. In the area where there used to be a Statler 
Toyota, there now is a sign reading "Honest Joe Statler - fine horses." 
He sees some men working.

Man #1: Give me some soap, Frank.

Man #2: Here you go.

He sees a bathing house and a butcher chopping meat. He sees a banner 
above that advertises the "Hill Valley Festival" on September 5th, 
1885, for the dedication of the clock tower. He sees an A. Jones Manure 
wagon on the side of the road. He sees a horse-drawn wagon driving by. 
Marty then sees the clock tower that he destroys in 1955 being built in 
the square in 1885.

Horse Driver: Hyah!

Marty gets out of the way right before a horse-drawn carriage runs over 
him. There is a clearing of dust and we see Marty staring at his boots, 
now covered with horse poop. He walks into the saloon. 

Scene: Inside the saloon. Three old men are sitting at a table in the 
saloon talking amongst themselves.

Old Timer #1: Take a look at what just breezed in the door.

Old Timer #2: Why I didn't know the circus was in town!

Old Timer #3: Looks like he got that shirt off'n a dead Chinee.

Old Timer #1 laughs.

Bartender: To Marty. What'll it be, stranger?

Marty: Uh...I'll have...uh...ice water.

Old Timer #1: Ice water? Laughs.

Bartender: Water? You want water, you better go dunk your head in the 
horse trawl back there. Old Timers laugh. In here... we pour whiskey. 
He takes out a bottle of whiskey and pours a small glass. Marty stares 
at it. There is steam coming from the glass.

Marty: Excuse me. I'm trying to find a blacksmith.

Voice: Hey McFly... thought I done told you never to come in... We see 
that it is a mean looking cowboy with a gang behind him. You ain't 
Seamus McFly. Walking towards the counter. You look like him though. 
'Specially with that dawg ugly hat. His gang laughs. Marty rolls his 
eyes at his hat and takes it off. You kin to that hay barber? Marty 
doesn't reply. He just stares. What's your name, dude?

Marty: Uh...Martin. Realizing his mistake, he tries again. Eastwood. 
Clint Eastwood.

Gang Leader: What kind of stupid name is that?



Gang Member: I'd say he's the runt of the litter.

Gang Member: Going over to Marty, shaking his jaw and showing off 
Marty's brushed teeth. Take a look, see these pearly whites! I ain't 
seen teeth that straight weren't store bought.

Gang Member: Take a look at them moccasins. What kind of skins is them? 
What's that writing mean...Neekay...what is that, some sort of Injun 
talk or something? Laughs.

Gang Leader: Bartender begins pouring out whiskey but gang leader stops 
him. With the barrel of his gun. Bartender...I'm looking for that no 
good cheatin' blacksmith. You seen him?

Bartender: Scared. No, sir, Mr. Tannen, I have not.

Marty: Tannen. You're Mad Dog Tannen. 

Buford (formerly Gang Leader, we now know his name): Mad Dog? Everyone 
in the saloon runs and hides, but Marty stays where he is. I hate that 
name. I hate it, you hear? Nobody calls me Mad Dog. 'Specially not 
some, duded-up, egg sucking, guttertrash. He points a gun at Marty's 
feet and shoots, causing Marty to jump to save his feet.

Marty: AHH!

Buford: Dance! Fires shot. Come on! Fires shot, gang members laughing 
hysterically. Come on, runt, you can dance - fires shot - better than 
that!

Marty keeps his feet going in case while the dust clears. When it does 
clear we notice that he's doing Michael Jackson's moonwalk.

Marty: Uh...uh...Billy Jean is not my lover-kicking feet-whoo!

He jumps on an end of a wooden plank, sending a barrel of urine and 
tobacco spit at the other end of the plank flying, ending up spilling 
all over Buford. Buford draws his gun, points and clicks - but nothing 
happens. He's out of shots. Marty scrambles to get out but trips 
underneath the old timers' table.

Old Timer #1: You better run, squirrel!

Buford: Y'all get him!!!

Marty, climbing over tables and chairs and swinging from chandeliers, 
hops his way out of the saloon with the gang following close behind. He 
runs like mad.

Marty: Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa!

The chase continues. However, since the gang and Buford Tannen are on 
horses, they catch up to him faster. Buford swings a rope with a ring 
on the end a couple times like a lasso and then he throws it over 
Marty's neck, dragging him the rest of the way towards the clock tower. 
His gang, in delight, fires shot guns and laughs.

Marty: Ahh!!

Buford: We got ourselves a new courthouse...high time we had a hangin'!

Marty sees what they're trying to do.

Marty: Oh, oh God, hu...

They tighten the noose on his neck and hoist him up on the rope so that 
he is hanging from the courthouse with his hands and feet dangling in 
the air. Buford and his gang laugh hysterically. In the distance, a 
tall man in boots and a long coat with a long gun steps slowly up 
towards the mini-riot. Neither Marty nor the gang has seen him yet.

Buford: Haven't had a hanging in a long time!

The man points and clicks. A loud boom is heard and apparently he's 
shot Marty out of the air so he has now been saved. He falls with a 
thud, however unharmed, to the ground. The gang looks at the man for 
the first time and raises their guns. Who is it?

Doc: It'll shoot the fleas off a dogs back at 500 yards, Tannen, and 
its pointed straight at your head!!

Buford motions that he wants to speak with Doc alone to his gang, and 
they put their guns down. He rides slowly towards Doc on his horse.

Buford: You owe me money, blacksmith.

Doc: How do ya figure?

Buford: My horse threw his shoe. Seein' you was the one who done the 
shoeing, I figures you was responsible.

Doc: Well since you never paid me for the job I say that makes us even!

Buford: Wrong! See I was on my horse when he threw his shoe and I got 
throwed off. And that just caused me to bust a perfectly good bottle of 
fine Kentucky Redeye. So the way I figure, blacksmith, you owe me five 
dollars for the whiskey, and seventy-five dollars for the horse.

Marty: Realizing this is why Doc is going to be killed. He can barely 
speak, so he whispers hoarsely. That's eighty dollars!

Doc: Look, if your horse threw his shoe, bring him back and I'll reshoe 
him!

Buford: But I shot that horse!

Doc: Well that's your problem, Tannen!

Buford: Wrong. That's yours. So from now on, you better be lookin' 
behind you when you walk. 'Cause one day you gonna get a bullet in yo' 
back. Let's go!

His gang makes a noisy departure, leaving Doc and Marty alone for the 
first time. Marty whispers hoarsely again.

Marty: Doc...

Doc: Marty...I gave you explicit instructions not to come here but to 
go back directly to 1985.

Marty: I know Doc...but I had to co-

Doc: But its good to see ya, Marty.

Marty and Doc exchange hugs.

Doc: Marty, you're gonna have to do something about those clothes. You 
walk around town dressed like that and you're liable to get shot.

Marty: Making a tightening gesture around his own neck. Or hanged.

Doc: What idiot dressed you in that outfit?

Marty: Clapping his hand on Doc's shoulder and smiling for the first 
time. You did.

Scene: Blacksmith shop/barn. Marty is changing into real nineteenth-
century Western clothes.

Doc: Studying tombstone picture with the magnifying glass. "Shot in the 
back by Buford Tannen over a matter of 80 dollars!" September seventh! 
That's this Monday! Now I wish I'd paid him off! He points to the text 
at the bottom of the tombstone and talks to Marty. And whose this 
beloved Clara? I don't know anyone named Clara.

Marty: I dunno, Doc. I thought maybe she was a girlfriend of yours.

Doc: Looking at Marty like he is stupid. Marty. My involvement in such 
a social relationship, here in 1885, the result is a disruption of the 
space-time continuum. As a scientist, I can never take that risk, 
certainly not after we've already been through.

Man outside: Emmett! Ho Emmett!

Doc: Looking out the open door. Hubert! Speaking towards Marty in the 
back of the room. It's the mayor!

Mayor: Coming just inside the door. Excuse me Emmett. You remember last 
week at the town meeting when you volunteered to meet the new school 
teacher at the station after she came in?

Doc: Oh yes, quite so.

Mayor: Well, we just got word she's comin' in tomorrow. Here are the 
details for ya. He gives Doc a sheet of paper. Thanks for all your 
help.

Doc: Walking towards Marty, calling out. Anytime, Hubert!

Mayor: Oh, her name's Miss Clayton. Clara Clayton.

Doc looks up in a state of confusion, putting two and two together. The 
Mayor leaves before Marty finally speaks.

Marty: Well, Doc, now we know who Clara is.

Doc: Looking at Marty with a weird grin on his face. Marty. It's 
impossible. The idea that I could fall in love at first sight? It's 
romantic nonsense. There's no scientific rationale to that.

Marty: Laughing. C'mon, Doc, it's not science. You meet the right girl, 
it just hits ya; it's like lightning.

Doc: Climbing a ladder on a giant machine he's made. Marty, please 
don't say that!

Marty: Calling out. That's the way it was for me and Jennifer. Man, we 
couldn't keep our eyes off each other! God, Jennifer, damn, I hope 
she's alright, Doc. I can't believe we just left her there on the 
porch!

Doc: Don't worry, Marty, she'll be fine. When you burned the almanac in 
1955, the normal timeline was restored. That means once we're back in 
1985, you just have to go over to the house to wake her up.

The giant machine begins tooting.

Doc: Oh, Marty, turn that valve over there all the way to the right. 
Yeah, turn it all the way around. Okay let's go!

The machine rattles for a while. Doc holds a plate next to a tube where 
something is going to shoot out of the machine. A small, brownish solid 
similar to ice comes out. Doc dumps it into a long beaker of cooled 
tea. He rattles it and offers it to Marty.

Doc: Iced tea?

Marty: No, thanks. Doc takes a swig. Marty looks incredulously at the 
giant machine. It's a refrigerator!

Doc: Moving away from his invention. Well, I guess Miss Clayton will 
have to find other transportation. Turning to face Marty. If I never 
meet the woman, there's no possibility of a romantic infatuation, 
right?

Marty: You're the doc, Doc.

Doc: Alright then. Let's get the DeLorean and get ourselves back to the 
future! Puts on hat.

Marty: Casually. Oh Doc, I tore a hole in the gas tank. We'll have to 
patch it up and get gas.

Doc: Frozen in place, expression changes. You mean we're out of gas?

Marty: Still unaware of what's wrong. Yeah, no big deal, we got Mr. 
Fusion, right?

Doc: Mr. Fusion powers the time circuits and the flux capacitor. But 
the internal combustion engine runs on ordinary gasoline; it always 
has. There's not going to be a gas station around here until some time 
in the next century. Without gasoline, we can't get the DeLorean up to 
88 miles per hour.

Marty: Facing mirror. So what'll we do?

Scene: Outside Hill Valley, Marty and Doc sitting on the roof of the 
DeLorean being pulled by a pack of horses.

Marty: Uh! Uh! Uh! Uh!

Doc: Ya! Ya! Using whip, I believe.

Marty: Reading their speed off some sort of device. 24!

Doc: It's no use Marty! Even the fastest horse in the world can't run 
more than 35, 40 miles an hour.

Doc: Ya! Ya! Ya!

Scene: Blacksmith shop. Doc is pouring purple liquid into the front of 
the car (the part with all the mechanical stuff) and Marty's trying to 
start the car.

Marty: Bartender says that's the strongest stuff they got.

Doc: Try it, Marty.

Tries to start the car, it stalls but then there is a bubbling noise 
coming from the back of the car.

Doc: Need more gas...

There is a loud boom. Something pops out of the bottom of the end of 
the DeLorean.

Doc: Damn! It blew the fuel injection manifold. Strong stuff all right. 
Sheepishly handing the broken part to Marty. It'll take me a month to 
rebuild it.

Marty: A month? Doc, you're gonna get shot on Monday!

Doc: Has moved toward a desk near the window facing the railroad 
tracks; there is a calendar with the date next to the desk. He faces 
Marty, back to window. I know, I know, I know! I wish...wait. I've got 
it! We can roll it down a steep hill...no, we'd never find a smooth 
enough surface. Unless...of course...ice. Eyes widening. We can wait 
until winter...when the lake freezes over...

Marty: Winter! Doc! Monday! It's three days away!

Doc: Apparently trying to think again. Wait. Let's just think this 
thing through logically. We know it can't run on its own power, and we 
know we can't pull it. But, if we can figure out a way to push it up to 
88 mph...huh?

The train whistle blows outside. Doc turns to look outside for the 
first time and sees a large black steam train pulling into the station.

Doc: That's it!

Scene: Next to the train with the engineer.

Engineer: How fast she can go? Why, I've powered her up to 55 myself. I 
hear that fearless Frank Fargo got one of these up to near 70 out past 
Verde Junction.

Marty: Is it possible to get it up to 90?

Engineer: Laughing. 90? Tarnations, son, why'd ya ever be in such a 
hurry?

Doc: Well, it's just a little bet that he and I have, that's all. 
Theoretically speaking, could it be done?

Engineer: Well, I suppose if you had a straight stretch of track with a 
long level grade, and you weren't hauling no cars behind you...and if 
you could get the fire hot enough...I mean hotter than the blazes of 
hell and tarnations...well yes, you might be able get her up that fast.

Doc: When's the next train coming through here?

Engineer: Matter-of-factly. Monday morning at 8 o'clock.

Scene: At the train station, studying a map on the wall of Hill Valley.

Doc: Here. Slams finger on map. This spur runs off the main line 3 
miles down to Clayton Ravine. There's a long stretch of track that will 
still exist in 1985. This is where we'll push the DeLorean with the 
locomotive. Leaning against the wall. Funny, this map calls Clayton 
ravine Shonash Ravine. Must be an old Indian name for it. Facing map 
again. It's perfect. Nice long run that goes clear across the bridge 
over the ravine, you know, over near that Hilldale housing development.

Marty: Right, Doc, but according to this map...indicating map...there 
is no bridge.

Scene: On the railroad tracks near the ravine. There is a dead end. The 
railroad tracks just stop at the edge of the ravine. Marty and Doc are 
walking back from visiting the edge.

Marty: Well, Doc, we can scratch that idea. I mean, we can't wait 
around a year and a half for this thing to get finished.

Doc: Marty...it's perfect! You're just not thinking fourth 
dimensionally!

Marty: Mumbling, probably thinking, "Where have I heard that before?". 
Right, right. I have a real problem with that.

Doc: Don't you see? The bridge will exist in 1985. It's safe and still 
in use. Therefore, as long as we get the DeLorean up to 88 miles per 
hour before we hit the edge of the ravine, we'll instantaneously arrive 
at a point in time where the bridge is completed. We'll have track 
under us, and coast safely across the ravine!

Marty: What about the locomotive?

Doc: Grinning. It'll be a spectacular wreck. Too bad no one will be 
around to see it.

Woman: In the background. Ahhh!! help me!

Doc: Turns to see a woman in the distance riding on a buckboard with 
horses speeding wildly out of control and headed straight for the edge 
of Shonash Ravine. Great Scott! He kicks his horse. Git!

Marty: He motions his horse to get moving. Hah!

Doc: Speeds toward the woman on his horse (still not seeing her face) 
and motions her to get off the wagon. Jump!

Just in time, the woman climbs out of the wagon and into Doc's arms. 
The horses neigh and suddenly gallop toward the left, leaving the wagon 
to fall off the edge of the ravine.

Doc: Calming his horse down. Whoa.

Woman: Her hat sits jaunty on her head, covering her face. Oh, thank 
you, sir, you saved my...she lifts her hat for the first time and sees 
Doc. Stunned she cannot speak for a moment. ...life.

Doc: Doc stares at her too. His eyes grow wide. Apparently he's fallen 
in love with this woman. Emmett Brown, at your service, Miss...

Woman: Um...um...Clayton. Clara Clayton.

The camera points towards Marty, who whips out the tombstone photo from 
his pocket and stares at it, his eyes moving quickly from the photo 
back to the two in front of him.

Doc: Clara. He pauses for a moment. What a beautiful name.

The three are riding toward Clara's new cabin, with Marty a little 
behind the other two and one horse carrying Clara's supplies. Doc and 
Marty take the supplies off the horse's back and put them on the porch 
of Clara's cabin.

Doc: May I help you inside with these?

Clara: Oh no, that won't be necessary. You've done more than enough 
already.

Doc: But it's really no trouble.

Marty: Doc, she says it's fine, and we gotta get goin'. Looks up at 
Clara. Ma'am, good luck with the school teachin' and everything.

Doc: Clara, I'll straighten everything out with Mr. Statler from the 
buckboard rental ... don't you worry about that. I feel someone's 
responsible for what happened.

Clara: Oh, well, that would be very gentlemanly of you, Mr. 
Brown...Emmett. You know, I'm almost glad that snake spooked those 
horses. Otherwise, we might never have met. I suppose it was destiny. 
Doc stares at her unbelievingly. Well, thank you for everything.

Doc: You're quite welcome.

Clara: I will...see you again, won't I?

Doc: Casually but knowing he is lying. Of course, you'll see lots of 
me, I'm sure, I have a shop in town. I'm a local 
scientist...uh...uh...blacksmith.

Clara: Science? What sort of science? Astronomy? Chemistry?

Doc: Enchanted again by Clara. Actually I'm a student of all sciences.

Marty: Hey Doc, we gotta get goin'.

Doc: Oh yes, well, excuse us Clara, we have to get...going. He backs 
out from the path to Clara's house and closes the small gate. He then 
waves with a ridiculous look on his face. Toodle-oo.

Clara waves back and Marty and Doc get on their horses and start riding 
away from her house.

Marty: What do ya mean, you're gonna be seein' lots of her, Doc?

Doc: Well...I might see her again, just in passing.

Marty: Laughing. C'mon, Doc, did you see the way she was looking at 
you?

Doc: Admittingly. Well, she did have quite a scare, right? After all, 
Miss Clayton almost ended up at the bottom of Clayton Ravine. The words 
register as he speaks them. Clayton Ravine...

Marty: Apparently it registers with him, too. Holy shit! Hey Doc! 
Clayton Ravine was named after a teacher. Doc turns to stare at him. He 
continues explaining. They say she fell in there a hundred years ago.

Doc: Incredulously. A hundred years ago! That's this year!

Marty: Continuing. Every kid in school knows that story because we all 
have teachers we'd like to see fall into the ravine.

Doc: Great Scott! He stops his horse. Then she was supposed to go over 
in that wagon...and now, I may have seriously altered history. He sits 
there hopelessly.

Marty: Look, Doc, what's the worst that could happen, huh? So they 
don't name the ravine after her. Let's just get the DeLorean ready and 
get the hell out of here.

Doc: Ignoring Marty. I wish I'd never invented that infernal time 
machine...which caused nothing but disaster. He rides slowly away. 
Marty pauses for a moment, looking at Doc curiously, then continues as 
well.

Scene: Blacksmith shop.

Marty: Speaking into walkie-talkie from one end of the room. Doc, Doc, 
this is Marty. Can you read me? Over.

Doc: Speaking into walkie-talkie from the other end, working on the 
tires of the DeLorean. Check, Marty.

Marty: Into walkie-talkie. Great Doc, these things still work.

Doc: Alright. Doc moves toward a model railroad he has built and Marty 
advances toward it from the opposite direction. Marty, once more lets 
go over the entire plan and layout. I apologize for the crudity of this 
model...

Marty: Remembering the 1955 Doc's model of the Hill Valley square the 
night of the thunderstorm. Yeah, I know, Doc, it's not to scale. It's 
okay, Doc.

Doc: Alright. Tomorrow night, Sunday, we'll load the DeLorean on to the 
tracks here on the spur right by the old abandoned silver mine. The 
switch track is where the spur runs off the main line 3 miles into 
Clayton...Shonash Ravine. The train leaves the station at 8:00 Monday 
morning. We'll stop it here, uncouple the cars from the tender, throw 
the switchtrack, and hijack - borrow the locomotive and use it to push 
the time machine. According to my calculations we'll hit 88 miles per 
hour just before we hit the edge of the ravine, at which point we'll 
instantaneously arrive in 1985 and coast safely across the completed 
bridge.

Marty: What does this mean? Indicating a small sign Doc has made out of 
cardboard near the end of the railroad. Point of no return?

Doc: That's our failsafe point. Up until that point we can stop the 
locomotive before it plunges over the ravine. But once we pass that 
windmill, it's the future or bust.

Scene: Blacksmith shop near model railroad.

Doc: Here you go, Marty. Connect that to the positive terminal. All 
right, Marty, you all set?

Marty: Yeah, yeah, go.

Doc: Train pulling out of the station! Coming up the switch track! Stop 
at switch track! Throw switch! Pull up the DeLorean! Pushing lever 
further and further downward. Pushing the DeLorean up to 88 miles per 
hour! The model train falls off the table with the model car and onto a 
pillow on the ground. Doc catches the model DeLorean before it hits the 
ground. It couldn't be simpler!

There is a knock on the door.

Woman's Voice: Hello? Emmett?

Doc goes to see who is at the door. He turns to Marty.

Doc: It's Clara! Quick, cover the DeLorean. Marty and Doc busy 
themselves throwing a sheet over the DeLorean and Marty hides the model 
car behind his back. Clara opens the door herself and invites herself 
in.

Clara: Hello.

Doc: Why, hello. This is quite a surprise.

Clara: Well, I hope I'm not disturbing anything.

Doc: Oh no, we were just doing a little model railroad. Walking over 
toward the model railroad.

Clara: Emmett, when my bags were thrown from the wagon, my telescope 
was damaged. And...since you expressed an interest...in science, I 
thought you might be able to repair it for me. She pauses. I would pay 
you, of course.

Doc: Quickly. Oh, no, no, no, I wouldn't think of charging you for 
this. Marty sighs and runs his hand through his hair. Well, let's have 
a look at it. He opens the telescope case Clara has brought and takes 
out the long device. He puts it in front of his eye and closes the 
other.

Clara: I think the lens may be out of alignment, because if you move it 
this way, the image turns fuzzy, see? She moves closer to Doc and 
gently moves the telescope in one direction. But if you turn it ... the 
other way...

Doc: Doc moves the telescope from his eyes and lowers his hand. He 
turns to face Clara. They gaze at each other. ...everything becomes... 
clear.

It is apparent that they will probably kiss if they stand much longer 
at in this position. Marty is shown a few yards away in between the two 
characters. He clears his throat loudly. Doc and Clara look away from 
each other quickly. Clara moves a few steps toward the door and Doc 
takes on a queer position holding the telescope right in front of him 
with an idiotic look on his face.

Doc: I will repair it right away and have it for you tonight.

Clara: Oh, tonight's the town festival. I wouldn't dream of having you 
work on my telescope during such an important event. You are...planning 
on attending, aren't you?

Marty: Well, actually ma'am...

Doc: Of course, the festival... Marty looks at him strangely but 
doesn't say anything.

Clara: Well, in that case, I'll see you this evening at the festival, 
Emmett. She walks toward the door and acknowledges Marty. Mr. Eastwood.

Marty: Ma'am.

Clara: Suddenly turning back to look at Doc. Thank you...for taking 
care of my telescope.

Doc: You're quite welcome. Clara exits and Doc has the stupidest look 
on his face that anyone's ever seen. Marty goes up to him after a 
moment.

Marty: It's a nice telescope.

Scene: Hill Valley town center. The townspeople are all gathered around 
for the dedication of the clock.

Mayor: Ladies and gentlemen! As mayor of Hill Valley, it gives me great 
pleasure to dedicate this clock to the people of Hill County. May it 
stand for all time! Clapping and cheering. Tell me when, gentlemen!

Townspeople: 3...2...1...now!

The mayor starts the clock that will eventually end up in the clock 
tower and be destroyed 70 years later. There are fireworks.

Mayor: Let the festivities begin!

Doc and Marty are watching the festivities from a few yards away from 
everyone else.

Doc: Y'know Marty, in a way it's fitting that you and I are here to 
witness this.

Marty: Marty flashes a smile. Too bad I didn't bring my camera.

Just then there is a great flash of light and click near the clock. The 
nineteenth century photographer is taking pictures of people near the 
clock. Marty and Doc look at each other.

Scene: In front of the clock.

Photographer: Ready, gentlemen?



Doc: To Marty while facing the camera. The only problem is we'll never 
be able to show it to anybody.

Marty: Smile, Doc.

There is a great flash of light again. It looks like Marty and Doc have 
gone blind!

Scene: The Town Festival - The Dance. ZZTop is "acting" as the 
nineteenth century band at the dance.

ZZTop Member: YEE HA!!

The music begins. Doc and Marty are again, aside. They aren't dancing, 
just watching the festivities from the sidelines.

Doc: What great music!

Marty: Yeah; it's got a beat and you can dance to it!

Colt Gun Salesman: Step right up, gentlemen, and test your mettle with 
the latest products from Colonel Samuel Colt's Patent firearms of 
Hartford, Conneticut. Take this model for example. Marty turns and 
watches the Colt gun demonstration. Doc doesn't; he ventures out to see 
the sights. The new, improved and refined Colt Peacemaker. Available to 
you tonight for the low, low price of $12.

Doc sees Clara talking with some people. He smiles in anticipation. 
Clara finally notices him and smiles back, advancing toward him.

Doc: Good evening.

Clara: Evening.

Doc: You look very...nice.

Clara: Thank you.

Doc: He observes the festivities for a moment and then stutters in 
invitation. Would you like...uh...would you care to, uh...

Clara: Without hesitation, reassuring Doc. I'd love to.

Doc and Clara go out toward the dance floor.

Scene: Still on the sidelines of the dance, Marty is still observing 
the Colt gun demonstration.

Colt Gun Salesman: Turning to Marty. Young man, want to give it a try?

Marty: No, no, thanks. He turns to speak to Doc, unaware that he's 
already been gone a long time. Hey Doc, this... He notices that Doc 
isn't there and his eyes move to the dance floor.

Colt Gun Salesman: Not giving up so easily. Son! Sonny boy! Marty is 
oblivious to the salesman's desire for attention. He notices Doc and 
Clara on the dance floor and his shocked to see them begin dancing.

Marty: The doc can dance?!



Colt Gun Salesman: Son! Son! Son! He nudges Marty's shoulder with the 
barrel of the loaded gun (ooh, that's rough). Marty finally turns 
around. Hey! I just told you that even a baby can handle this weapon. 
Surely you're not afraid to try something that a baby can do.

Marty: Hey, I'm not afraid of anything.

Colt Gun Salesman: Triumphant. Well, then, step right up like a man. 
Hands Marty a gun in front of a little diorama of the Old West in a 
box. It looks almost like an old fashioned video game to Marty. Now, 
what you do is just ease that hammer back there and squeeze off a 
round. Marty points it to the diorama but the man shakes his head and 
guides his hand upward. No, no, no, right on out there and be real 
smooth. That's how you do it.

Marty, obviously shoots way off the mark into the sky.

Colt Gun Salesman: Thinking Marty is pathetic and chuckling. Ho ho. 
God.

Marty: Suddenly recognizing the similarities to a video game (although 
we don't know it yet). Hey listen, can I try that again?

Colt Gun Salesman: Sure, go ahead. Still chuckling.

Marty shoots four or five times in succession. His marksmanship is so 
fantastic it stuns the salesman. He flips it back to the man.

Colt Gun Salesman: Hey, just tell me one thing...where'd you learn to 
shoot like that?

Marty: In all seriousness. Seven-eleven.

Scene: Outside the festival - the entrance.

Buford Tannen and his gang approach the festival on horseback.

Gang Member #1: Buford, you sure that blacksmith is gonna be at this 
here shindig?

Buford: Sure he's here. His voice growing dark. Everybody's here 
tonight.

Deputy Marshall: You gentlemen are gonna have to check your firearms if 
you want to join in on the festivities.

Buford: Laughs. And who's gonna make us, tender-foot...you?

Marshall: I am. Buford turns to see Marshall Strickland to his left 
side, holding a long rifle near Tannen's shoulder.

Buford: Marshall Strickland. I didn't know you was back in town.

Marshall: If you can't read the sign, Tannen, I presume you can read 
this. He pats his rifle.

Buford: Pretty tough hombre when you're pointin' a scattergun at a 
man's back.

Marshall: Just like you, Tannen, I take every advantage I can get. Now 
are you gonna check your iron?

Buford: Backing down. I was joking with your deputy. Of course I'm 
going to check my iron. We all were, weren't we boys? Laughing. They 
give all their guns up.

Deputy: Yeah. Right.

Deputy: Tannen...your knife, too.

Buford: Angered, he takes the knife that was concealed in his boot and 
throws it like a dart onto a table nearby. Then he faces the Marshall. 
Smile, Marshall. After all this is a party.

Marshall: Still not moving his gun. The only party I'll be smilin' at 
is the one that sees you at the end of a rope. Buford and the Marshall 
glare at each other.

Deputy: Finally extending his arm, inviting the gang in. Have fun.

Marshall: To a boy on horseback next to him whom we didn't notice 
before. That's how you handle them, son, never give them an inch. 
Maintain discipline at all times. Remember that word...discipline.

Boy: Solemnly. I will, Pa.

Scene: At the dance, near the banquet table. Marty is eating off a pie 
plate when Seamus and Maggie McFly run into him.

Seamus: Why, Mr. Eastwood. Nice to see ya. I see you got yourself some 
respectable clothes, lad. And a fine hat.

Marty: Yeah, well, a couple other people didn't like the way the other 
one looked on me.

Maggie: Sure that one suits you Mr. Eastwood. Very good for you.

Marty: Ahh...thanks. He has finished the pie and checks out the writing 
on the bottom of the plate. Hey...Frisbee. Far out. He grins and exits.

There is a pause, and then Seamus turns to his wife.

Seamus: What was the meaning of that?

Maggie: It was right in front of him.

Seamus: Aye.

Scene: The dance. Doc and Clara and the other couples are shown 
dancing.

Scene: Below Doc and Clara's dance floor. The gang and Tannen are 
checking things out, trying to find "that cheatin' blacksmith."

Gang Member: There he is, Buford.

Buford: A growling sound is heard instead of a normal questioning 
voice. Where?

Gang Member: Right there. Points upward towards Doc and Clara. Dancing 
with that piece of calico.

Gang Member #2: What are ya gonna do, boss?

Buford: His voice growing dark. I figure...I'll bury this muzzle deep 
enough in his back, nobody'll hear the shot.

Gang Member: Careful, Buford, you only got the one bullet with that.

Buford: I only need one.

Scene: Doc and Clara dancing.

Doc looks absolutely enchanted with Clara and is goggling over her 
while they dance. Suddenly when they dance themselves into a corner, 
Doc feels a gun barrel in his back and freezes with terror on his face, 
Clara still in front of him.

Buford: I told you to watch your back, Smithy.

Doc: Trying to maintain composure. Tannen. But you're early. Obviously 
he hadn't considered the possible factor that he wasn't killed right 
away after the shot.

Buford: It's a Derringer, Smithy. Small but effective. Last time I used 
it the fella took two days to die. Bled to death inside, it was real 
painful. Gang laughs. That means you'd be dead by about suppertime 
Monday.

Clara: Interrupting. I don't know who you think you are, but we're 
dancing.

Buford: Notices Clara seemingly for the first time. Well looky what we 
have here...introduce me to the lady; I'd like a dance.

Doc: Turning around to face Tannen with a brave and determined look on 
his face. Now Buford moves the gun barrel to his throat. I wouldn't 
give you the pleasure; you'll just have to go ahead and shoot.

Buford: Alright.

Clara: Sensing very obvious danger. No, Emmett. I'll dance with him.

Buford: Boys, keep the blacksmith company while I get acquainted with 
the fil. He pushes Doc aside and his gang members take ahold of each of 
his arms. Doc has a very restrained and angered look on his face as 
Buford begins dancing with Clara, much like Marty's reaction in Back to 
the Future I when Biff attacks Marty's mother in the car at the dance. 
WOO...HA HA HA! YEAH. OOOH.

Clara: I don't dance very well when my partner has a gun in his hand.

Buford: Holding her very close and very disgustingly. Well, you'll 
learn. In a louder voice. You know, Smithy, I may just take my $80 
worth outta her. Doc struggles to be let go to save his beloved Clara. 
WOO...HAHAHA! YEAH. To Clara. I bet there's somethin' you can do that's 
worth $80.

Clara: I'm afraid you've underestimated me, Mister.

Buford: Very gullibly. Have I now?

In response, Clara kicks Buford very hard in the shins. Buford cringes 
over in pain and Clara backs out. Doc finally frees himself. The music 
stops.

Doc: Stop it! Damn you, Tannen!

Buford: No, I damn you. He draws his gun and aims at Doc. Marty, from 
the banquet table (the little pig) finally sees what's going on and his 
eyes open wide. He grabs the Frisbee plate. I damn you to hell!

At the same moment as Buford fires his single bullet, Marty tosses the 
plate. Miraculously, it blocks the bullet from harming Doc and the only 
thing that happens to him is he is shown stunned that he is alive and 
his hat blows off his head. Buford instantaneously turns to see who 
stopped his victory.

Buford: You!

Marty: Stepping down from the banquet table, through the crowd and 
toward Tanen. Hey, lighten up, jerk!

Buford turns to his gang members, who shrug in response. What the heck 
does that mean?

Buford: Mighty strong words, runt! You man enough to back that up with 
more than just a pie plate?!

Marty: Backing down a little. Look, just leave my friends alone. He 
starts walking away.

Buford: What's wrong, dude, you yella? Marty pauses in mid-step and 
turns slowly to face Tannen. That's what I thought. Yellow belly.

Marty moves back to his original stance, pointing his forefinger at 
Buford.

Marty: Nobody... calls me yellow.

Buford: Let's finish it...right now.

Gang Member #1: Uh, not now, Buford...Marshall's got our guns.

Buford: Undaunted. Well, like I said, we'll finish this tomorrow.

Gang Member #2: Tomorrow we're robbin' the Pine City Stage.

Buford turns in exasperation to his gang behind him.

Buford: How 'bout Monday? We doin' anything on Monday?

Gang members look at each other and shake their heads.

Gang Member #3: No, Monday be fine... you can kill him on Monday.

Buford: Quickly turning to face Marty. I'll be back this way on Monday. 
We'll settle this then. He points a finger in a direction. Right there 
out in the street, in front of the Palace Saloon.

Marty: A little uncomfortably. Yeah, right, well, when? Sarcastically. 
High noon?

Buford: Noon? I do my killin' before breakfast. Seven o'clock!

Marty: Obviously is very uncomfortable with this situation. He clears 
his throat. Eight o'clock. Again gaining confidence. I do my killin' 
after breakfast.

Doc finally whispers to Marty in a concerned voice.

Doc: Marty...no. Clara looks at him then and he casually changes his 
expression to smiling and stops talking to Marty.

Seamus and Maggie are watching all of this. Maggie's brought young 
William and he suddenly begins to cry in her arms.

There is a long silence. Suddenly the Marshall comes on stage with his 
rifle.

Marshall: Alright now, break it up. What's all this about...you causing 
trouble here, Tannen?

Buford: No trouble, Marshall. Just a little personal matter between me 
and Eastwood. Marty looks away in exasperation. He obviously thinks 
this is a little retarded. This don't concern the law.

Marshall: Without hesitation. Tonight everything concerns the law - now 
break it up. Any brawlin', there's fifteen days in the county jail. He 
lowers his gun and changes his tone to address the crowd. Come on, this 
is a party! Come on, let's have some fun!

The music resumes. People begin dancing again. Buford approaches Marty 
on the sidelines.

Buford: 8:00, Monday... you ain't here, I'll hunt you and shoot you 
down like a duck.

Gang Member #1: It's dawg, Buford. Shoot 'im down like a dawg.

Buford is obviously upset that his tough-guy image has been shattered 
by his stupidity: Let's go, boys! Let these sissies have their party!

The gang exits, and Doc pulls Marty aside (Clara is currently out of 
the camera's eye).

Doc: Marty, what are you doing, saying you're going to meet Tannen??

Marty: Doc, don't worry about it! Monday morning, 8 AM. We're gonna be 
gone, right?

Doc: Theoretically, yes, but what if the train's late??

Marty obviously has not thought of this before and is taken aback: 
Late??

Clara returns from wherever she went and is instantly by Doc's side.

Doc: We'll discuss this later.

Marty: No, we'll discuss this now...late?

Clara: Thank you for your gallantry, Mr. Eastwood.

Marty loves the attention and tries to be modest: No, hey, ma'am.

Clara: Had you not interceded, Emmett might have been shot!

Doc: Marty...uh, Clint...I'm going to take Clara home.

Before Marty has a chance to respond he is pulled away by a man at the 
party.

Man: You sure set him straight, Mr. Eastwood. I'm glad somebody finally 
got the gumpton to stand up to that son-of-a-bitch.

Man #2: You're alright in my book, Mr. Eastwood...I'd like to buy you a 
drink.

Marty is not accustomed to all this attention and he faces both men: 
Hey, look, I don't want a drink. It was no big deal. He starts to move 
in closer, obviously, to begin describing what he did, but there is a 
tap on his back. It's the Colt Gun Salesman, holding out a Colt 
Peacemaker and a gun-belt.

Colt Gun Salesman: Young man, young man...I'd like you to have this 
brand new Colt Peacemaker and gun belt, free of charge!

Marty takes the gun and belt: Free?

Colt Gun Salesman: I want ever'-body to know that the gun that shot 
Buford Tannen was a Colt Peacemaker. He accentuates the words "Colt 
Peacemaker" to make them sound magnificent.

Marty: Hey, hey, thanks. Studying the gun and belt.

Colt Gun Salesman: Of course, you understand that if you lose...I'm 
taking it back. He smiles and walks away.

Marty stares between the gun and the salesman moving into the distance 
for a moment before thinking of something to say: Thanks again.

Marty walks in the opposite direction the salesman headed and heads 
right into Seamus and Maggie McFly (no bumping of course, just an 
opportunity for them to talk). They continue walking together.

Seamus: You had him, Mr. Eastwood! You could have just walked away, and 
nobody would o' thought the less o' ya for it. All it would have been 
was words... hot air from a buffoon. Marty looks away with an obvious 
air of "I-don't-need-this." Instead you let him rile ya...rile ya into 
playing his game, his way, playing his rules.

Marty: Seamus, relax, I know what I'm doing.

Maggie: He reminds me of poor Martin.

Seamus: Aye.

Marty: Who?

Seamus: Me brother.

Marty is obviously stunned. Somebody else shared his name in the 
family?: Wait a minute...you have a brother named Martin McFly? They 
stop walking.

Seamus: Had a brother. His voice takes on an explaining air and Marty 
resumes the "I-don't-need-this" expression. Martin used to let men 
provoke him into fighting. He was concerned people would think him a 
coward if he refused. That's how he got a bowie knife shoved through 
his belly in a saloon in Virginia City. Never considered the future, 
poor Martin, God rest his soul.

Seamus walks away. Maggie stays with Marty for a moment.

Maggie: Sure'n hope your considerin' the future, Mr. Eastwood. She and 
William, whom she is holding in her arms, follow Seamus.

Marty looks after them: I think about it all the time.

Scene: An open field at night. Doc and Clara are seated on their 
horses, very close, watching the stars through a telescope. We see 
their backs first and the cameras close in on them.

Clara: And that crater in the middle northwest, out there all by itself 
like a starburst?

Doc: Uh-huh.

Clara: That one's called Copernicus. She laughs. Listen to me, I feel 
like I'm teaching school!

Doc: Oh, please, continue your lesson. He laughs. I never found lunar 
geography so fascinating. You're quite knowledgeable.

Clara: When I was 11, I had diphtheria. I was quarantined for three 
months, so my father bought me this telescope and put it next to my bed 
so I could see everything out my window. She pauses for a moment, 
looking up at the stars. Emmett, do you think we'll ever be able to 
travel to the moon, like we travel across the country on trains?

Doc smiles and answers with assuredness: Definitely, although not for 
another 84 years and not on trains. We'll have space vehicles ... 
capsules to sail off in rockets - devices that create giant 
explosions...explosions that are so...powerful that they...

Clara finishes his sentence quite calmly: ...they break the pull of the 
earth's gravity and send their projectile through outer space. Doc 
looks at her in wonder. Clara just laughs. Emmett...I read that book 
too. You're quoting Jules Verne, From The Earth To The Moon.

Doc: In obvious quiet excitement. You've read Jules Verne?

Clara: I adore Jules Verne.

Doc: So do I. 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea, my absolute favorite. The 
first time I read that when I was a little boy I wanted to meet Captain 
Nemo and...

Clara: Laughing. Please, Emmett...you couldn't have read that when you 
were a little boy, it was only first published ten years ago.

Doc: Pretends to look confused. Oh, yes, well...I meant it made me feel 
like a boy. He pauses and sees that this is a satisfactory answer. I 
never met a woman who liked Jules Verne before.

Clara: I never ever...met a man like you before.

They lean in and kiss. The cameras back out again and the scene closes 
with pretty "starry" music.

Scene: Morning at the blacksmith shop.

This scene is reminiscent of the one at the beginning of BTTF I, with 
Doc's crazy inventions and obsession with clocks...1800's style. Eggs 
and pancakes come out and start cooking at scheduled times and Marty 
wakes up. He climbs out of his little cot and faces away from the 
camera. He is wearing a white pajama suit. He may not notice, but a 
part of his bare butt is exposed and is out there for the world to see.

Marty: Doc! Doc! He doesn't see Doc anywhere and speaks to himself. I 
hope you know what you're doin'...his eye falls on the Colt Peacemaker 
and its belt. He picks up the gun and faces the mirror. You talking to 
me? You talking to me, Tannen? Pausing. Well I'm the only one here. Go 
ahead...make my day.

Scene: Downtown Hill Valley.

Man #1: Hey, good morning, Mr. Eastwood!

Marty: Morning.

Man #2: Have a cigar, Mr. Eastwood. Anything I can do for you today, 
Mr. Eastwood?

Marty: No, no, it's... fine.

Man #3 is riding by in a carriage with his family: Good luck tomorrow, 
Mr. Eastwood! We'll be prayin' for ya!

Marty: Calling back. Thanks.

The Undertaker has a striking resemblance to the scary-looking member 
of Limp Bizkit who plays guitar (not Fred Durst): Good morning, Mr. 
Eastwood. Interest you in a new suit for a tomorrow?

Marty: Ah, I'm...I'm fine. Thanks.

He sees Doc about fifty yards away, sniffing a flower stuck to his 
jacket. He approaches him.

Marty: Doc. What are you doing?

Doc: Stops sniffing. Oh, nothing...just out enjoying the morning air. 
It's really lovely here in the morning, don't you think?

Marty: Yeah, it's lovely Doc. Listen, we gotta load the DeLorean; we 
gotta get ready to roll alright...hey look at that, the tombstone. He 
suddenly spots freshly carved tombstones in front of a shop waiting to 
be engraved.

Doc: Marty, let me see that photograph again. Marty hands it to him and 
Doc looks at it, walking toward the camera with his back to the actual 
tombstones. He sighs. My name...it's vanished.

Marty: Hey, that's great Doc! Don't you get it - we're going back to 
the future tomorrow, so everything's bein' erased!

Doc: But only my name is erased! The tombstone itself and the date 
still remain. That doesn't make sense. We know that this photograph 
represents what will happen if the events of today continue to run 
their course into tomorrow.

Marty: Right and so?

Undertaker: Comes on suddenly and pulls a measuring tape from Marty's 
shoulder to his feet. Excuse me, Mr. Eastwood, I just need to take your 
measurement.

Marty: Hey, look, pal, I don't want to buy a suit!

Undertaker: Laughs. No, this is for your coffin.

Marty: My coffin?!

Undertaker: Well, the odds are running two to one against you. He pulls 
the measuring tape back to its original position and makes a choking 
motion with his hand against his own throat. Might as well be prepared. 
He exits.

Doc: So...it may not be my name that's supposed to end up on that 
tombstone. It may be yours.



Marty continues walking away from the tombstone and then stops, with 
his hand to his forehead: Great Scott!

Doc assumes a position behind Marty's shoulder: I know, this is heavy. 
Marty and Doc start walking in the original direction Marty had been in 
at the beginning of the scene. Marty, why are wearing that gun? You're 
not considering running against Tannen tomorrow!

Marty: Doc, tomorrow morning I'm going back to the future with you. But 
if Buford Tannen comes looking for trouble I'm going to be ready for 
him. You heard what that son-of-a-bitch called me last night.

Doc: Marty, you can't go losing your judgment every time someone calls 
you a name! That's exactly what causes you to get into that accident in 
the future.

Marty: Suddenly stops in his tracks and turns. What? What about my 
future?

Doc's expression changes to one of sad, final acceptance: I can't tell 
you. It might make things worse.

Marty: Wait a minute, Doc...what is wrong with my future?!

Doc: Calmly. Marty...we all have to make decisions that affect the 
course of our lives. You've gotta do what you've gotta do. And I've 
gotta do what I've gotta do.

Doc exits. Marty pauses for a moment, staring into space before 
following him.

Scene: Near the railroad tracks at night. Marty is stooped down 
repairing something on a bump in the tracks when Doc appears and stoops 
down to talk.

Doc: Marty.

Marty: Yeah?

Doc: I've made a decision. I'm not going with you tomorrow. I'm staying 
here.

Marty: Slowly, then defiantly. What are you talkin' about, Doc?!

Doc: There's no point in denying it. I'm in love with Clara.

Marty: Oh man. Doc, we don't belong here! Neither one of us! You know 
it could still be you that gets shot tomorrow! He puffs his chest out 
and points at it, then takes out the photograph of the tombstone from 
his pocket and stuffs it in Doc's face. This tombstone could still be 
in your future!

Doc: Marty...the future isn't written. It can be changed; you know 
that! Anyone can make their future whatever they want it to be. I can't 
let this one little photograph determine my entire destiny. I have to 
live my life according to what I believe is right... in my heart.

Marty: Sighing. Doc...you're a scientist. So you tell me. What's the 
right thing to do, up here?? He points to his own forehead.

Doc sighs and pauses: You're right, Marty.

They pull a switch and the DeLorean rolls slowly down the tracks. Marty 
and Doc stare after it.

Marty: Wow, that worked great.

Doc: I've at least gotta tell her goodbye.

Marty: C'mon...Doc...I mean, think about it...what are you gonna say to 
her, I gotta go back to the future?? I mean, she's not gonna understand 
that, Doc. How long I been with ya and I don't even understand it?? He 
pauses as Doc sighs. Doc. Listen. Maybe we could...I dunno, maybe we 
could just take Clara with us.

Doc: To the future? He pauses. You've reminded me, Marty, I'm a 
scientist so I must be scientific about this. I cautioned you about 
disruption of the continuum for your own personal benefit; therefore I 
must do no less. We will proceed as planned, and as soon as we return 
to 1985 we'll destroy this infernal machine. Traveling through time has 
become much too painful.

Doc exits and Marty stares after him before following him.

Scene: Outdoors by a campfire. Marty and Doc are warming themselves in 
front of a fire, Marty soundly asleep on the ground. Doc gets up.

Scene: Clara's house.

There is a knock on the door

Voice: It's Emmett, Clara.

Clara is writing at a desk. She gets up and opens the door, smiling 
when she sees Doc.

Clara: Oh, Emmett, won't you come in?

Doc: No...I better not. I...

Clara: What's wrong?

Doc: I've come to say goodbye.

Clara: Goodbye? Well, where ya goin'?

Doc: I'm going away...and I'm afraid I'll never see you again.

Clara: Emmett...

Doc: Clara...I want you know that I care about you deeply, but I 
realize that I don't belong here, and I have to go back to where I came 
from.

Clara: And where might that be?

Doc: ...I can't tell you.

Clara: Well, wherever you're going, take me with you!

Doc: I can't, Clara. I wish it didn't have to be this way...but just 
believe me when I say that I'll never forget you and that...I love you.

Clara: I don't understand what you're trying to say.

Doc: Clara...I don't think there's anyway that you can understand it.

Clara: Please, Emmett, please...I have to know. If you sincerely do 
love me...then tell me the truth.

Doc: All right then. I'm from the future. Clara looks at him in 
disbelief. I came here in a time machine that I invented and tomorrow I 
have to go back to the year 1985.

Clara: Clara's face changes to a look of certainty. Yes, Emmett, I do 
understand. Doc looks relieved, but Clara slowly clenches her teeth and 
menacingly steps toward him. I understand that because you know I'm 
partial to the writings of Jules Verne you concocted those mendacities 
in order to take advantage of me! She slaps Doc on the cheek. Oh, I've 
heard some whoppers in my day but the fact that you'd expect me to 
entertain a notion like that is so...insulting and degrading! She turns 
back toward her door. All you had to say is "I don't love you and I 
don't want to see you anymore." That at least would've been respectful! 
She slams the door.

Doc: Staring after her. But that's not the truth!

There is a pause. Doc, in a heartbreakingly emotional way, removes the 
flower from his suit that Clara has given him and leaves it on the 
window sill next to her doorway. He exits, and we notice through the 
window a bedroom. Clara runs into the room and buries her face on the 
bed, crying.

Scene:The saloon at night.

Bartender: Emmett! What can I get you, the usual?

Doc: No, Chester, I'm gonna need something a lot stronger than that 
tonight.

Bartender: Certainty in his voice. Sarsaparilla.

Doc: Whiskey, Chester.

Bartender stares at him in wonder: Whiskey...Emmett, are you sure? You 
know what happened to you on the fourth of July...

Doc: Whiskey.

Bartender: Taking out the bottle. Okay, I ain't your papa. He pours 
some in a small shot glass. I just don't wanna see you...losing the 
whole thing.

Doc stops the Bartender from moving to put the bottle back: You can 
leave the bottle.

A bearded, spectacled man whom we previously had not noticed slides 
down the bar-table thing and begins speaking to Doc.

Bearded Man: It's a woman, right? I knew it! I have seen that look on a 
man's face a thousand times, all across the country. Well I can tell 
you, friend. You'll get over her.

Doc: Oh-ho. Clara was one in a million. One in a billion. One in a 
googolplex. The woman of my dreams and I lost her for all time.

Bearded Man: I can assure you, sir, there are other women. I have 
peddled this barbed wire all across the country, and it has taught me 
one thing for certain. It's that you never know what the future might 
bring.

Doc: Oh-ho...the future, I can tell you about the future.

Scene: Dawn at the campfire. Marty is just waking up, lifting his head 
from the barrel of his gun which he slept on top of the entire night.

Marty: Oh...oh, man, did I sleep...what time is it, Doc? He notices Doc 
isn't there. Doc!

He looks at the photo of the tombstone. Underneath the text "Here 
lies..." very faintly the words "Clint Eastwood" are beginning to 
appear. He looks up and sees Doc's horse is gone.

Scene: Dawn at another campfire with Tannen and his gang, who have also 
been sleeping. Buford, however, is more than awake.

Buford: Wake up! He kicks one of his gang members in the stomach, 
forcing him to cringe and try to get up. I got me a runt to kill! He 
does it again to another member.

Gang Member #1: It's still early, boss.

Gang Member #2: It's still early!

Buford: I'm hungry.

Scene: Saloon. Doc is holding his shot glass and talking to the entire 
saloon in a slow, distant voice.

Doc: ...but in the future, we don't need horses. We have horseless 
carriages called auto-mo-biles.

An Old Timer chuckles.

Old Timer: If everybody's got one of these automo-whatsits, does 
anybody walk or run anymore?

Doc: Of course they run. But for recreation, for fun.

Old Timer: Run for fun? Ha-ha, what the hell kind of fun is that?

Another Old Timer laughs hysterically.

Scene: Town. Marty jumps off his horse, running into the blacksmith 
shop.

Marty: Doc! Doc!

Marty comes out of the blacksmith shop and looks around. He sees the 
saloon.

Scene: Saloon.

Old Timer: How much has he had?

Bartender: None. That's his first one and he hasn't touched it, yet. He 
just likes to hold it.

The Old Timer laughs. Marty bursts into the saloon, running towards 
Doc.

Marty: Doc! Doc! He sees the glass. What're you doin'?

Doc: I lost her, Marty. There's nothing left of me here.

Marty: All right, so that's why you've gotta come back with me.

Doc looks confused: Where?

Marty says in a what's-wrong-with-you voice: Back to the future!

Doc speaks with a sudden conviction: Right. Let's get going. He puts 
down his glass.

Marty: Great.

Doc: Gentlemen, excuse me, but my friend and I have to catch a train.

Old Timer: Here's to ya, blacksmith. He raises his glass in salute.

Old Timer #2: And to the future! He raises his glass too.

Old Timer #3: Amen.

Doc: Amen. He raises his glass from the bar and puts his mouth to it.

Bartender: Emmett, no!!

He's too late; Doc has already swallowed the whiskey. As Marty and the 
bartender watch in horror, Doc takes one step forward and keels over, 
knocking over the Old Timers' table and their breakfasts.

Marty: Doc! Doc! Doc! C'mon, Doc, wake up, wake up, Doc. To Bartender. 
How many did he have?

Bartender: Just one.

Marty speaks in disbelief: Just one?! C'mon, Doc.

Bartender: There's a feller that can't hold his liquor.

Marty: Gimme some coffee... black.

Bartender: Joey, coffee!

Marty looks out the window and sees the clock. It reads 7:45.

Scene: A road.

Gang: Giddy up, hey, hoot!

Tannen's gang gallops on their horses towards town.

Scene: Ticket office at the train station.

Clerk: Ma'am.

Clara: How far does the 8:00 train go?

Clerk: San Francisco's the end of the line.

Clara: I'll take a one way ticket.

Scene: Saloon. Marty is trying to feed Doc the coffee, and nothing is 
working.

Bartender: You want to sober him up in a hurry, son, you're gonna have 
to use something a lot stronger than coffee.

Marty: Yeah, what do you suggest?

Bartender smiles: Joey. Let's make some wake up juice.

Someone sets out a variety of ingredients; salts and liquids and things 
like that. The bartender pours the mixture with the help of Joey.

Bartender: In about ten minutes, he's gonna be as sober as a priest on 
Sunday.

Marty: Ten minutes?! Looks at clock, sees it is now 7:50. Why do we 
have to cut these things so damn close?

Bartender walks over with the glass of liquid, a funnel and a 
clothespin: Here, stick this clothespin on his nose, and when he opens 
up his mouth, go ahead and pour it on down his throat. Marty begins to 
comply. Oh, and stand back.

Marty pours the liquid through the funnel and for a moment nothing 
happens. Luckily he stands up just in time, because Doc's eyes suddenly 
open wide, he jumps up and shrieks...

Doc: WAHHHH!! HOT! HOT!

He runs out of the saloon and turns, crashing straight into the water-
filled horse trawl. He doesn't move.

Marty and the bartender run out after him and look around, and spot him 
by the horse trawl. They lift him out of the water and look at his 
face.

Marty: He's still out!

Bartender, as they bring Doc back into the saloon: Oh, that, that was 
just a reflex action. It's gonna take a few more minutes for the stuff 
to really clear up his head.

Marty: Perfect.

Scene: Hill Valley train station. Clara boards the train, apparently 
signalling that Marty and Doc are late.

Scene: Saloon. Seamus McFly enters as Marty and the bartender are 
slapping Doc's (who is sitting in a chair, unconscious) face, trying to 
get him to wake up. 

Marty: C'mon, Doc, c'mon...wake up, buddy. C'mon, wake up, Doc, c'mon, 
c'mon.

Bartender: Seamus. Wouldn't expect to see you here this morning.

Seamus: Aye. But something inside me told me I should be 'ere. I think 
my future had something to do with it.

Marty turns for a moment and stares at Seamus. Then the bartender 
speaks, snapping him back into helping-Doc mode.

Bartender: He'll come around in a minute.

Marty: C'mon, Doc, c'mon...wake up, now, buddy, c'mon.

Voice: Are you in there, Eastwood? Marty looks up out the window which 
is on the other side of the room. Buford is outside, yelling into the 
saloon. It's eight o'clock, and I'm calling you out.

Marty, stepping towards Buford cautiously, yelling through the closed 
window: It's not 8:00 yet!

Buford: It is by my watch! Let's settle this once and for all, runt. Or 
ain't you got the guts?

Marty takes the photo of the tombstone from his pocket and sees that 
the photograph now clearly reads "Here lies Clint Eastwood." He is 
shocked. Slowly, he gulps.

Marty: Listen. I'm not really feeling up to this today. So I'm gonna 
have to forfeit!

Buford: Forfeit? Forfeit! He turns to one of his gang members. What's 
that mean?

Gang Member: Uh...it means that you win without a fight.

Buford: Without shootin'? Hey, he cant do that. He starts yelling at 
Marty again. You can't do that! Marty gulps again. You know what I 
think? Ah think you're a gutless yella turd. And I'm giving ya to the 
count of 10 to come out here and prove I'm wrong. 1...



Marty quickly turns back to Doc: Doc!! C'mon, sober up, buddy, let's 
go.

Buford: 2...

Old Timer: You better get out there son - I got $20 goin' betting on ya 
so you can't let me down.

Old Timer #2: I got $30 goin' betting against you so don't let ME down.

Buford: 3...4...

Old Timer #3: You better face up to it son, because if you don't go out 
there...

Buford: 5...

Marty: What? What if I don't go out there?

Old Timer: You're a coward!

Buford: 6...

Old Timer #2: And you'll be branded a coward for the rest of your days!

Old Timer #3: Ever' body, ever were, will say Clint Eastwood is the 
biggest yeller belly in the west.

Buford looks at his gang members. One of them holds up seven fingers 
for him.

Buford: 7...

Man: Here...He slides a gun across the table.

Buford: 8...

Marty: I already got a gun. He passes it back to the man.

Buford: 9...

Marty stares wide-eyed at everyone around him and each and every one of 
them returns the wide-eyed, silent gaze.

Buford: 10! You hear me, runt? I said that's ten, you gutless yella pie 
slinger.

Marty shrugs suddenly: He's an asshole! I don't care what Tannen says! 
And I don't care what anybody else says either.

Just then Doc jumps up.

Doc: Whoa!

Marty: Doc, Doc, you okay??!!

Doc: I think so...whoa, what a headache!

Marty to Bartender: Listen, you got a back door to this place?

Bartender: Yeah, it's in the back.

Marty: C'mon, Doc, let's go. They start heading out.

Buford: Are you comin' out here, runt, or do I have to go in there 
after ya?

Marty and Doc escape out a back door and start climbing down some 
stairs in an alleyway.

Doc: The thing I really miss here is Tylenol.

A gang member turns and spots them.

Gang Member: Hey! Marty instantly jumps away. Freeze blacksmith!

Scene: Train. The whistle blows. The train is finally leaving the 
station. The bearded man from last night is sitting next to another man 
directly behind Clara, who is sitting alone.

Bearded Man: Yessir, that poor fella last night had the biggest case of 
broken heart I have ever seen! And when he said that he didn't know how 
he could live the rest of his life knowing how much hurt he'd caused 
that little girl? Well, I really felt for him. I did. Right here.

Scene: The back of the saloon. Marty is alone. He watches out the 
window as Tannen and his gang members hold Doc.

Buford: Listen up, Eastwood! I intend to shoot somebody today and I'd 
prefer it to be you. But if you're just too damn yella, I guess it'll 
just have to be you're blacksmith friend.

Doc: Forget about me, Marty, and save yourself!

Buford: You got one minute to decide. You hear me runt? One minute!

Marty turns from the window.

Scene: On the train.

Bearded Man: I never seen a man so broken up over a woman. What'd you 
say her name was? Cara? Sara?

Man next to Bearded Man: Clara?

Bearded Man: Clara!

Clara instantly spins around.

Clara: Excuse me.

Bearded Man: Ma'am.

Clara: But was this man tall, with great big brown puppy dog eyes and 
long silvery flowing hair??

Bearded Man: You know him?

Clara: Spins around. Emmett!

She pulls on a string, bringing the train instantly to a halt. Everyone 
almost topples out of their seats.

Scene: Outside saloon. Marty is not there; Buford and his gang (with 
Doc) are.

Buford: Times up, runt! He throws the watch at Doc and points his gun 
toward him. Prepare to meet your Maker, blacksmith.

Voice of Marty: Right here, Tannen!

Buford turns. They assume positions seen in normal shooting scenes in 
Westerns. A crowd gathers - everyone who was in the saloon comes out 
and so do all the townspeople near by.

Buford: Draw!

Marty: No! Buford stares at him. He throws his gun and belt down, 
gulping. I thought we could settle this like men.

Buford: After a pause. You thought wrong, dude. He shoots and Marty 
falls to the ground. 

Buford laughs and walks toward the fallen "Eastwood."

Doc looks at Buford and then turns to see Marty on the ground, turning 
back and forth in disbelief.

Buford: Ahh, thank ya.

Buford stops in front of Marty, pointing his gun at him to finish him 
off. Suddenly Marty's foot flies up and knocks the gun out of Buford's 
hand. He stands up to Buford's shock, lifting his shirt to reveal a 
nineteenth century stove that he had put under it as a bullet-proof 
vest (he stole it from the Eastwood movie Biff was watching in the 
alternate 1985). Buford throws a punch and nearly breaks his hand 
because it is so hard. Marty takes off the stove-thing and crashes it 
down on top of Buford's head. He falls, but then stands up again. Marty 
punches him again and again, and Buford crashes into a tombstone in 
front of a shop, breaking it in half, and then he lands headfirst in 
the A. Jones Manure Cart. Everyone stares.

Seamus: Chuckles slightly. That was good.

The deputy marshall and his officers are galloping on horseback toward 
the scene.

Gang Member: You know what I think? I think Buford's going to jail.

Gang Member #2: You're right.

All of the gang members take off, but Doc stops them. They just let go 
of Doc and run away.

Deputy Marshall: Get him out of that shit. Get them! He indicates the 
escaping criminals, and his officers gallop away in pursuit. The Mayor 
points his long rifle at Buford's head.

Deputy Marshall: Buford Tannen, you're under arrest for robbing the 
Pine City Stage. You got anything to say?

Buford slowly spits out two mouthfuls of manure: I hate manure.

Doc: Look! He indicates the split tombstone and Marty immediately whips 
out the photo, from which the image of the tombstone vanishes.

Marty: YES!

The train whistle blows.

Doc: The train!

Marty: Can we make it?

Doc: We'll have to cut it off at coyote pass!

They quickly get on their horses but before they leave a little boy 
stops Marty.

Little Boy: Hey Mister...Mr. Eastwood. Here's your gun, Mister. The 
little boy gives the gun to Marty.

Marty: Thanks, kid. He spots his great-great-grandfather standing in 
front of the saloon. Seamus grins and rolls his hands into fists, 
faking a punch to show that he saw what Marty did. Seamus! Marty throws 
the gun and the belt at him. Worth $12, never been used.

Seamus: Maybe I'll trade it for a new hat.

Marty: Right, and take care of that baby! He rides off with Doc toward 
the trains.

Seamus calls after him: I will!

Scene: Blacksmith shop.

Clara bursts in, shouting.

Clara: Emmett! Emmett! Emmett! She stops and studies the model of the 
railroad. She picks up the wooden futuristic automobile and reads the 
words printed on it. ...Time machine...



Scene: Outside the moving train somewhere in the countryside outside 
Hill Valley.

Doc: C'mon Marty!

Marty: Ah! Ah!

Doc: Ah, gimme your hand!

Marty: Ahhh! Whoa! Whoa! Ahh!

Scene: Somewhere, Clara is on her horse following the train.

Scene: Moving train.

As they jump the trains Doc and Marty make very peculiar yelling 
noises.

Doc: Wa-ha!

Marty: Whoa!

Doc: Hoo! C'mon, Marty!

Marty jumps on the top of another car, yelling all the way.

Marty: Ahhhhh!

Doc: C'mon, let's go! Masks on.

They tie bandanas over their mouths and climb over a train car filled 
with logs and into the engineer's car.

Doc: Freeze! He and Marty are holding guns.

Engineer: Is this a holdup? He holds his hands up.

Doc, after he and Marty look at each other: It's a science experiment! 
Stop the train before you hit the switch track up ahead.

Scene: Outside in front of the train, which is a few paces away from 
the DeLorean which has already been rolled onto the tracks.



Marty: Doc! He holds his hand up after doing something to the tracks.

Doc, pointing a gun at the engineer and his assistant giving them 
directions: Uncouple the cars from the tender.

Marty climbs up into the train as it starts to move. Doc blows the 
train whistle. It makes a "Toot! Toot!" noise.

Doc: I've wanted to do that my whole life!

Marty laughs.

Scene: Between the DeLorean and the train. Marty and Doc are grabbing 
colored logs from the car and carrying them to the train.

Marty: What are these things, anyway?

Doc: My own version of Presto Logs. Compressed wood with anthracite 
dust chemically treated to make the fire burn hotter and longer. I use 
them in my forge. These three will light the fire sequentially, make 
the fire burn hotter, kick up the boiler pressure and make the train go 
faster.

Scene: With Clara, who is still following the train. She sees the cars 
and not the actual train-thing (?), and kicks her horse in its side 
with her foot.

Clara: Hiyah! She starts moving again.

Scene: Inside the DeLorean. Marty is in the car, which is hooked up to 
the front of the train. Doc is in the front of the train.

The train whistle blows.

Marty, into walkie-talkie: Ready to roll!

There is a shot of Clara following them. She can see them now, but they 
cannot see her.

Clara: EMMETT!

Doc, into walkie-talkie: Marty. are the time circuits on?

Marty, into walkie-talkie: Check, Doc.

Doc, into walkie-talkie: Input the destination time - October 27, 1985, 
11 AM.

Marty punches this information into the keypad.

Marty, into walkie-talkie: We're cruising at a steady 25 miles an hour, 
Doc.

Doc, into walkie-talkie: I'm throwing in the Presto Logs.

He throws the logs into the fire, one by one.

Doc, into walkie-talkie: Marty, the new gauge will show the boiler 
temperature. Inside the DeLorean Marty looks at the new device Doc has 
installed. The color coding indicates when each log will fire. Green, 
yellow, and red. Each detonation will be accompanied by a sudden burst 
of acceleration. Hopefully we'll get up to 88 miles per hour before the 
needle hits two thousand.

Marty, into walkie-talkie: Right, what happens what it hits two 
thousand?

Clara has meanwhile caught up with the end of the train.

Doc, into walkie-talkie: The whole motor will explode.

Marty, into walkie-talkie: Perfect.

Clara gets off her horse and climbs onto the end of the train.

Marty, into walkie-talkie: Hey, Doc, we just hit 35!

Doc, into walkie-talkie: Okay, Marty, I'm coming aboard! He has begun 
climbing to the front of the train, where the DeLorean and the 
locomotive are connected.

Clara: Emmett!

Marty, staring at speedometer talking to himself: Come on, come on. He 
suddenly screams into the walkie-talkie. You better hold on to 
something, Doc, the yellow log's about to blow!!!

There is a gigantic explosion and Clara is shown, stunned, as she was 
thrown back a little on the car she was climbing on.

Clara: Ahh! And, as the wind blows in her face, Golly.



Marty, into walkie-talkie: We just passed 40!

Clara, who has climbed into the driver's seat of the locomotive: 
Emmett! Emmett! Emmett!

Marty, into walkie-talkie: He swings open the gull-wing door and shouts 
into the walkie-talkie while he openly looks at Doc for the first time. 
We just passed 45, Doc, go for it! He looks at the speedometer and 
mutters. Fifty.

The train whistle blows. This stuns both Marty and Doc, because they 
both think no one is on the train but them and Marty knows Doc is no 
longer in the driver's seat. Doc turns.

Clara: Emmett!

Doc: He nearly screams with delight. Clara!



Clara: She shrugs and shouts in the din. I love you.

Marty, into walkie-talkie: Doc, Doc! What's happening??

Doc, into walkie-talkie: It's Clara, she's on the train!

Marty: Clara! He sits back down in the DeLorean and speaks to himself. 
Perfect.

Doc, into walkie-talkie: She's in the cab. I'm gonna go back for her.

Just then the DeLorean passes by a windmill.

Marty, into walkie-talkie: The windmill! Doc, the windmill! We're goin' 
past 60; you'll never make it!

Doc, into walkie-talkie: Then we'll have to take her back with us! Keep 
calling out the speed! Doc turns to Clara and shouts to her. Clara, 
climb out here to me!

Clara: I don't know if I can!

Doc: You can do it! Just don't look down...that's it! Clara slowly 
makes her way out of the cab.

Marty, into walkie-talkie: Sixty miles an hour, Doc!!

Doc: To Clara. You're doing fine! Nice and steady! Come on! Just a 
little further! All the while Clara is edging closer and closer to him, 
climbing on the edge of the train.

Clara: I can't Emmett, I'm scared!

Marty, into walkie-talkie: SEVENTY!

Doc: Come on...you're doing fine...nice and easy...that's it...don't 
look down...

Marty, into walkie-talkie: DOC! THE RED LOG'S ABOUT TO BLOW!!!

Doc: Clara!!

There is a huge explosion. Clara nearly falls off the train.

Doc: Whoa!!

Clara: Emmett!

Doc: Clara! Hold on!

Clara: I can't! She screams in desperation; she's hanging upside down 
with her dress ripping.

Inside the car, the hoverboard flies by itself into a seat near Marty.

Marty, into walkie-talkie: Doc! I'll gonna slip you the hoverboard.

Doc: Marty! Watch out!

Marty turns around to see, just in time, a wooden sign that indicates 
that the bridge is not yet finished. He ducks into the car before the 
sign is blown apart by the car.

Marty: Ahhh!!!

Clara: AHHH!! AHH! EMMETT, HELP!

Doc: Hold on, Clara! Whoo!

Marty, into walkie-talkie: Doc! Catch it!

Doc nods and Marty sends the hoverboard flying toward him.

Doc: Whoa! His feet land on the board.

Marty: He observes. YES! YES!

Clara: Emmett!

Doc: Hold on!

Random scream (I don't know who): WHAHHH!

Doc picks Clara up just in time; they are together on the hoverboard.

Marty: YES!

Marty watches in horror as Doc and Clara, staring into each other's 
eyes, fly away from the DeLorean. But there is no time to do anything 
about it; Marty slams the gull-wing door and prepares for temporal 
displacement. He and the DeLorean disappear and the locomotive, on 
fire, falls off the edge of the ravine.

Scene: 1985 Railroad Tracks.

The familiar three sonic booms are heard, and the DeLorean pops out of 
nowhere onto the tracks. Marty, sheepish, waves to everyone who stares 
at this kid from out of nowhere in Old Western clothes in the middle of 
the railroad tracks in a weird-looking car.

Suddenly there is a modern day train whistle. Marty looks up and 
stares, mortified, as he sees a huge freight that is about to collide 
head-on with the DeLorean.

Marty: Shit! Just in time, he fumbles to open the door and slides out. 
AHHH!!!



He is still in the air when the DeLorean is hit by the train and 
disintegrates into a million different pieces. The train moves on. 
Marty goes over to where the car used to be, staring as the time 
circuit boards flicker one last time before they go dead forever.



Marty: Well, Doc, it's destroyed. He lifts his head. Just like you 
wanted.

Scene: Outside Marty's house.

Marty runs past the sign that says Lyon Estates and toward his garage, 
the door of which is open. He slams down a bottle of car-hood-waxer-
stuff that was already on the hood of the car. He hears a voice from 
behind the car.

Biff: Hey butthead! Get away from-

Biff gets out from behind.

Marty: Watch it, Biff.

Biff's tone instantly changes.

Biff: Marty! I - I didn't mean to scare ya! I didn't recognize you in 
those clothes!

Marty: What the hell are you doin'?

Biff: Uh...just puttin' on the second coat now! He indicates Marty's 
clothes. You goin' cowboy, huh? He gives Marty a quick thumbs-up.

The front door flies open and Dave (still in a suit) comes out.

Dave: C'mon, guys, we'll be late for brunch. He's looking at his watch.

The entire family starts coming out, one by one, at random intervals 
from the house.

Linda: Come on, Dad, they won't hold your reservations all day!

George: Lorraine, have you seen my glasses?

Lorraine: They're in your suede jacket, honey. She is the first to 
notice her son. Marty. We thought you went to the lake.

Linda: You wore that to the lake?

Marty: Thank God you guys are all back to normal.

Dave: Hey Marty, who're you supposed to be, Clint Eastwood?

Marty: Right. I gotta go get Jennifer. He gets into his truck.

Biff: I really like that hat, Marty.

Marty: As he starts the engine. Thanks, Biff.

Scene: Outside Jennifer's house. Marty pulls up his truck and climbs 
out. Jennifer is still sleeping in the swinging bench (from the 
position he and Doc left her in during Back to the Future Part II).

Marty: Jennifer. Jen. Jennifer. Wake up.

Marty sits beside her on the swing. She hasn't stirred yet. He gently 
touches her cheek and she croons softly. He bends down and kisses her. 
Her eyes open and she smiles.

Jennifer: Marty. She sits up and embraces him, and she changes her 
expression. I had the worst nightmare.

Scene: Town.

Marty and Jennifer are sitting in the truck, waiting for a traffic 
light. No other cars are around.

Jennifer: Marty, that dream I had was so real. It was about the future. 
It was about us...and you got fired.

Marty: What do you mean, I got fired? He reads the sign outside the car 
on Jennifer's side. Hilldale. The word registers. Hilldale! This is 
where we live...I...I mean, this is, uh, this is where we're gonna 
live. Someday. He smiles sheepishly.

Jennifer looks at him very strangely: Marty...it was a dream, wasn't 
it?

Before Marty gets a chance to reply, there is a sound of tires 
screeching and another truck pulls up next to them. It's Needles and 
his gang. Inside the truck, the song "The Power of Love" by Huey Lewis 
and the News is booming.

Needles: Hey! The big "M". How's it hanging, McFly?

Marty: Without looking at his archrival. Hey, Needles.

Needles: Nodding approvingly of Marty's new truck. Nice set of wheels. 
Let's see what she can do...next green light.

Marty: No thanks.

Needles: What's the matter? Chicken?

Jennifer, grabbing Marty's hand: Marty...don't.

Marty: He pulls the mode lever back. Grab a hold of something.

Needles and his gang laugh hysterically and as they get more and more 
excited as seconds pass, at regular intervals they rev up the engine. 
Marty looks at them as if they're crazy. The light turns green, and all 
we see are tires rolling and screeching. Needles speeds on ahead, while 
Marty spins around and his truck goes in reverse. He and Jennifer stare 
out the back window at Needles, who is a lone racer.

Jennifer, slightly shocked: Did you do that on purpose?



Marty: Yeah. You think I was stupid enough to race that asshole?

Just then, a Rolls Royce appears, apparently wanting to get out of a 
private street. Needles' truck almost hits it, and he spins around the 
vehicle just in time.

Marty: Geez...I would've hit that Rolls Royce.

As he stares, puzzled, Jennifer takes out the Cusco FAX she brought 
home from the future earlier and watches as the text, "YOU'RE 
FIRED!!!", vanishes from the page.

Jennifer: In an awed whisper. Erased.

Scene: At the wreckage site of the DeLorean. No one is there but Marty 
and Jennifer.

Jennifer: You're right. There's not much left.



Marty: Doc's never comin' back. I'm sure gonna miss him, Jen. He picks 
up a torn piece of paper from the mess. It's a picture, torn in half, 
of Doc at the clock tower in 1885, probably the one he took from 1955. 
The other half is missing...was it all just a dream?

Suddenly the rail crossing bells start ringing but there is no train in 
either direction. Jennifer and Marty turn from one direction to the 
other, puzzled.

Marty: What the hell?

Suddenly there is a huge "boom" and Marty and Jennifer are thrown back 
ten feet and they land in the grass. A shiny train, with "ELB" written 
on the side, appears. Out of the cab window, Doc pops his head out. He 
is wearing a tuxedo-ish outfit with a tophat, his hair combed now.

Marty: Doc!

Doc: Marty!

Marty, getting excited: Doc! Doc!

Doc: Marty! It runs on steam! He opens the doors of the train and he 
and Clara stand in the "doorway". Meet the family. Clara, you know. 
Clara appears next to him.

Clara: Hi, Marty!

Marty: Ma'am!

Doc: These are our boys! Two young boys step into sight. One looks 
about ten, the other six or seven. Jules, and Verne! Boys, this is 
Marty and Jennifer.



Marty: Doc, I thought I'd never see you again!

Doc: Can't keep a good scientist down. After all, I had to come back 
for Einstein, and I didn't want you to be worried about me. Clara hands 
him something wrapped in brown paper. Oh. I brought you a little 
souvenir.

Doc stoops down from the train but doesn't get off, and gives the gift 
to Marty. Marty rips it open. Inside is a framed photo of him and Doc 
at the clock tower in 1885.

Marty: It's great Doc. Thanks!

Jennifer: Doctor Brown? She takes out the Cusco FAX from her pocket, 
holding out for Doc to see. I brought this note back from the future 
and...now it's erased!

Doc: Of course it's erased!

Jennifer looks puzzled.

Jennifer: But what does that mean?

Doc: It means that your future hasn't been written yet. No one's has. 
Your future is whatever you make it. So make it a good one. Both of ya!

Marty: Firmly, waving. We will, Doc!

Doc: Stand back! As the doors close: All right, boys, buckle up!



Marty: Hey, Doc...where ya goin' now? Back to the future?

Doc: From the cab window, he shakes his head. Nope. Already been there! 
He waves at the two teenagers below.

Marty and Jennifer wave back, and the time train rises into the air and 
suddenly gains speed and disappears. The screen blackens and we see...

THE END


