Dr. Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis), a child psychologist in Philadelphia, returns home one night with his wife, Anna Crowe (Olivia Williams), after having been honored for his work.
Anna tells Crowe that everything is second to his work.
Just then, a young man appears, and accuses Crowe of failing him.
Malcolm recognizes him as Vincent Grey (Donnie Wahlberg), a former patient whom he treated as a child for hallucinations.
Vincent shoots Crowe in the abdomen before turning the gun on himself.

The next fall, Crowe begins working with another patient, nine year old Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment), whose case is similar to Vincent's.
Crowe becomes dedicated to the boy, though he is haunted by doubts over his ability to help him after his failure with Vincent.
Meanwhile, his wife hardly pays any attention to him.
At the same time, Crowe repeatedly has difficulty opening the door to his basement office.
Cole eventually confides his secret to Crowe: he sees dead people, who walk around like the living unaware they are dead.

At first, Crowe thinks Cole is delusional and plans to drop him.
Remembering Vincent, Crowe listens to an audiotape from a session with Vincent, then a child.
On the tape, Crowe is heard leaving the room, and when he returned, Vincent was crying.
Turning up the volume, Crowe hears a weeping man begging for help in Spanish, and now believes that Cole is telling the truth and that Vincent may have had the same ability.
He suggests to Cole that he should try to find a purpose for his gift by communicating with the ghosts and perhaps aid them with their unfinished business.
At first, Cole is unwilling since the ghosts terrify him, but he finally decides to do it.

Cole talks to one of the ghosts, Kyra Collins (Mischa Barton), a young ill girl who recently died.
He goes to her funeral reception with Crowe.
Kyra's ghost directs Cole to a box holding a videotape, which Cole then passes on to her father.
The video shows Kyra's stepmother intentionally making her sick, revealing the true reason she died.

Learning to live with the ghosts he sees, Cole starts to fit in at school and gets the lead in the school play, which Crowe attends.
The doctor and patient depart on positive terms and Cole suggests to Crowe that he should try speaking to Anna while she is asleep.
Later, while stuck in a traffic jam, Cole confesses his secret to his mother, Lynn (Toni Collette), saying that someone died in an accident up ahead and he knows because the person is right next to him.
Lynn does not see the recently deceased, but Cole sees a woman cyclist with blood dripping down her face.
Although his mother at first does not believe him, Cole proves his ability to her by talking about how his grandmother visits him.
He describes how his grandmother saw his mother in a dance performance even though she thought her mother was not there.
He describes to his mother how his grandmother thought she was lovely in the performance.
Lynn becomes tearful and yet amazed at the same time.
Cole says to his mother that the last time she went to where the grandmother is buried, she asked a question.
The grandmother's answer is "Every day".
Cole asks what the question was and mother tearfully explains that she asked her mother, "Do I make you proud?"
With that his mother tearfully accepts the truth.

Crowe returns home, where he finds his wife asleep with their wedding video playing.
While still asleep, Anna asks her husband why he left her, and drops Crowe's wedding ring, which he suddenly discovers he has not been wearing.
He remembers what Cole said about ghosts and realizes that he was actually killed by Vincent that night, and was unknowingly dead the entire time he was working with Cole.
Due to Cole's efforts, Crowe's unfinished business—rectifying his failure to understand and help Vincent—is finally complete.
Crowe fulfills the second reason he returned: to tell his wife she was never second, and that he loves her.
His goal complete, he is free to leave the world of the living.