In the small fishing town of Nightmute, Alaska, 17-year-old Kay Connell (Crystal Lowe) is found murdered.
LAPD detectives Will Dormer (Al Pacino) and Hap Eckhart (Martin Donovan) are sent to assist the local police with their investigation.

Concurrently, an intense Internal Affairs investigation in Los Angeles is about to put Dormer under the microscope.
Eckhart reveals that Internal Affairs has offered him an immunity deal in exchange for his testimony regarding one of Dormer's past cases.
Eckhart says that he has no choice but to accept the deal.

Focusing on the Nightmute case, Dormer comes up with a plan to lure the murderer back to the scene of the crime.
The attempt fails, however, and the suspect flees into the fog.
During the pursuit, Dormer fires at a figure in the fog, only to discover that he has shot Eckhart.
Given the nature of Eckhart's impending testimony, Dormer knows that Internal Affairs will never believe that the shooting was accidental.
Panicked, he alters the crime scene before calling for help and telling the police that Eckhart was shot by the suspect.
Ellie Burr (Hilary Swank), a young police officer, is put in charge of the investigation of Eckhart's shooting.

Over the next few days, Dormer is plagued by insomnia, brought on by the guilt over killing Eckhart and further exacerbated by the perpetual daylight.
Dormer then starts receiving anonymous phone calls from the suspect, who claims to have witnessed Dormer kill his partner.
Dormer is aware that Kay was a fan of a crime writer named Walter Finch (Robin Williams).
Dormer looks up Finch's address and breaks into his apartment to gather evidence, only to be discovered by Finch himself, who gets away.
Finch contacts Dormer, and offers Dormer a deal: Dormer will frame Kay's abusive boyfriend Randy Stetz (Jonathan Jackson) for the murder in exchange for Finch's silence about the Eckhart shooting.

Burr finds a 9mm shell casing at the scene, which conflicts with the bullet type believed to be found in Eckhart's body and begins to lead her toward the conclusion that Dormer has been lying about who shot Eckhart.
That night, Finch calls Dormer and tells him that Kay's death was "an accident"—he beat her to death in a fit of rage after she rejected his advances.
The next day, Finch, under Dormer's instruction, gives false testimony at the station, which, along with a weapon planted by Finch, effectively places blame on Randy.
Finch offers to give Burr letters indicating that Randy abused Kay, and asks her to come and collect evidence from his second, isolated home the next day.

Dormer returns to his hotel for one last night, where he confides in the hotel owner, Rachel Clement (Maura Tierney) about the Internal Affairs investigation: He fabricated evidence to help convict a pedophile he was certain was guilty of murdering a child, and who would have been set free if Eckhart had testified.
Clement refuses to pass judgement on Dormer, intimating that she moved to Alaska because she was "getting away from something".

Upon returning to Finch's apartment, Dormer discovers that Finch has gone to meet Burr, and realizes that Finch intends to kill her.
Finch knocks Burr unconscious.
Dormer eventually reaches the cabin, but is too disoriented to fight off Finch.
Burr saves Dormer from Finch, who flees; she then holds Dormer at gunpoint, revealing that she knows he shot Eckhart.
Dormer admits that he shot his partner, but says he is no longer certain if it was an accident.
From his shed, Finch shoots at them, and Burr returns fire, allowing Dormer to sneak around to Finch's location.
A struggle ensues in which Finch and Dormer shoot each other, killing the former and mortally wounding the latter.

Burr rushes to Dormer's aid, and then comforts him by affirming that Eckhart's shooting was accidental, and begins to throw away the shell casing evidence to preserve Dormer's secret.
Dormer stops Burr, telling her not to lose her way, before he dies.
After a brief moment of contemplation, Burr slips the shell casing back into its plastic evidence bag.