Julius Benedict (Arnold Schwarzenegger) and Vincent Benedict (Danny DeVito) are fraternal twins, the results of a secret experiment carried out at a genetics laboratory to produce the perfect child.
To the surprise of the scientists, the embryo split and twins were born.
The mother, Mary Ann Benedict, was told that Julius died at birth, and not told about Vincent at all.
Julius was informed that his mother died in childbirth.
Vincent believed his mother abandoned him.
Each twin is unaware of the other's existence.

Vincent was placed in an orphanage run by nuns in Los Angeles while Julius was taken to a South Pacific island and raised by Professor Werner (Tony Jay).
On Julius' 35th birthday, Werner tells him that he has a twin brother.
[1] Julius leaves the island to find him.

Julius discovers Vincent lives in L.A., and travels throughout the city.
Though intelligent, he is extremely naïve about the real world his more streetwise brother inhabits; at one point he inadvertently foils an attempt by two thieves to mug him.
He finds Vincent in jail.
Vincent is scornful when Julius tells him they are twins, but lets Julius bail him out and then drives off.
Julius tracks Vincent to his workplace, where he is being beaten by Morris, a member of a loan shark family known as the Klane brothers, for an unpaid debt.
Julius overpowers Morris and earns Vincent's respect and trust.
He meets Vincent's on-again-off-again girlfriend, Linda Mason (Chloe Webb).
Knowing little about women, Julius is oblivious to the flirtatious advances of her blond sister Marnie (Kelly Preston), who dislikes Vincent, but eventually falls in love with her.
Vincent shows Julius a document he stole from the orphanage which proves their mother is still alive but, believing she abandoned him, he has no interest in finding her.

Vincent steals a Cadillac to sell to his chop-shop contact, and discovers a secret prototype fuel injector in the trunk, which was to be delivered to an industrialist in Houston for $5 million.
He decides to deliver it himself and collect the money.
Webster (Marshall Bell), the original delivery man, begins ruthlessly searching for the person who stole the prototype.
At Julius' insistence, the two couples go on a cross-country journey to track Traven down.
They eventually find him in Los Alamos, New Mexico, and he tells them that their mother is living in an art colony near Santa Fe.
The Klane brothers find them again, with the intent of killing Vincent, but Julius and Vincent fight them off for the last time.
At the art colony, a woman informs them that Mary Ann is dead and they leave.
In reality, she is their mother but disbelieved their story.
Meanwhile, Webster is also getting closer to finding Vincent.

While Julius accepts their mother's death, Vincent becomes bitter and storms off, leaving Julius and the girls stranded in New Mexico, to deliver the engine to the industrialist, Beetroot McKinley.
Linda tells Julius about the engine and Julius once again sets off to find his brother.
Vincent delivers the stolen property to Beetroot, but Beetroot and his assistant are shot and killed by Webster, who then turns his attention to Vincent just as Julius arrives.
A cat-and-mouse chase ensues and Julius intercepts Webster as Vincent flees, but Vincent, feeling his brother's presence, reluctantly goes back and gives up the money to Webster.
Webster then plans to off the twins but is outsmarted causing him to end up being crushed to death by thousands of pounds of industrial chains.
Julius and Vincent make their peace, and Vincent reluctantly agrees to return the money and the stolen engine to the authorities, but secretly skims off one million.
Meanwhile, the twins' publicity reaches the art colony, and their mother realizes that the two "comedians" who visited her were her long-lost sons after all.

Julius and Vincent marry the Masons, and use the $50,000 reward money to start up a legitimate consulting business, using Julius' knowledge and Vincent's questionable business savvy.
In the final scene some time later, we see that both brothers' wives have given birth to twins and the entire family, including Mary Ann, is spending time together at an amusement park.