A man is seated in a diner who is revealed as Harold, a travelling salesman.
He is joined by a gentleman who makes him uncomfortable.
After leaving the diner, Harold is found dead which leads to FBI Agents Thomas Mackelway (Aaron Eckhart) and Fran Kulok (Carrie-Anne Moss) being bought on the case.
There appears to be history between both Mackelway and Kulok and a cloud of competency is addressed by flashbacks of Mackelway's recent suspension and issues that he's undergone.
As the investigation proceeds, the agents begin to become aware of the possible existence of "Suspect Zero", a mythical "super serial killer" responsible for hundreds of deaths across all 50 states who leaves no evidence behind to link his crimes together.

The killer also sends information to Mackelway and he is lead towards Benjamin O'Ryan (Ben Kingsley).
The agents must decide if O'Ryan is the key that will allow them to catch Suspect Zero, or if he is Suspect Zero himself.
Evidence uncovered reveals that O'Ryan was part of a secret government experiment attempting to cultivate telepathic abilities in individuals for military purposes.
The experiments gave O'Ryan the ability to see the actions of serial killers.
These disturbing visions constantly torment O'Ryan and drive him to find the killers and kill them.
O'Ryan seeks out Mackelway because Mackelway shares his abilities to some degree and was involved in a controversial case that made headlines.

The actual Suspect Zero is another man who travels over the United States with a refrigerated truck.
He targets children, whom he abducts and transports to his ranch to be killed.
Mackelway had started piecing together evidence linking these crimes by recognizing that victims had signs of freezer burns whilst being transported from their place of kidnap to their resting place.
Eventually, Mackelway and O'Ryan find Suspect Zero at his ranch.
After a struggle outside, Suspect Zero is killed when Mackelway crushes his skull with a rock.
O'Ryan then tries to convince Mackelway to end his suffering by killing him.
When Mackelway refuses, O'Ryan pretends to attack him, prompting Kulok to shoot him to defend her partner.