In 1979, Jimmy Bones (Snoop Dogg) is a numbers runner who is respected and loved in his neighborhood as its respected member and protector.
When he is betrayed and brutally murdered by a corrupt cop and drug pusher, who is trying to expand his business, Bones' elegant brownstone building becomes his own tomb, and is closed.

The timeline flashes forward to 2001, where the neighborhood has become a black ghetto and Jimmy's brownstone building is a condemned ruin.
Four teens buy the property and they want to renovate it as a nightclub.
In the process, they find a black dog who is actually the spiritual manifestation of Jimmy's tortured spirit.
As the dog starts to eat, Jimmy is slowly resurrected.

Patrick (Khalil Kain) meets Pearl (Pam Grier), Jimmy's old girlfriend, and her daughter Cynthia (Bianca Lawson).
Patrick develops a romance with Cynthia.
Patrick wanted to open a nightclub at the old ghetto neighborhood in hopes of making the neighborhood great again, and also to make a profit.
While exploring the basement, Patrick, his brother Bill (Merwin Mondesir), their step-sister Tia (Katharine Isabelle) and the gang find Jimmy Bones' body and they realize that he was actually murdered.
Patrick and the others decide to keep Jimmy's murder quiet or they won't be able to open the nightclub and they bury the remains.

Later, Jeremiah, Patrick, Tia and Bill's father (Clifton Powell), finds out about Patrick and the gang's plan to open the club at Bones' old building, he freaks out and demands that Patrick and the others leave the building.
Patrick refuses his request and opens the nightclub in spite of his father's objections.
On opening night Maurice (Sean Amsing), one of the teens, is lured into an upstairs room where he is mauled to death by the spiritual black dog.

Once he is fully resurrected Jimmy sets the club on fire and he is intent on getting revenge on those responsible for his death, those who betrayed him, and anyone who gets in his way.
Pearl and her neighbor felt that they should have burned the building down a long time ago.
After the incident, Pearl admits to Cynthia that Jimmy Bones is her father, as she had a relationship with him.

Patrick confronts his father Jeremiah and demands to know if he murdered Jimmy Bones 22 years ago.
His father admits he betrayed Jimmy Bones to make money to leave the neighborhood.
Also, he got fed up living in Bones' shadow and he wanted to be as popular and successful as him.
Jeremiah allowed drugs into the neighborhood as long he got paid for it.
Later, Jimmy kills the drug pusher (one of his murderers), a corrupt cop named Lupovich (Michael T. Weiss), and later takes Jeremiah back to the building.
Jimmy sends Lupovich, and the drug pusher to hell for all eternity while Jeremiah begs for his life.

Patrick, Cynthia, Bill, and Pearl go underground to find that Jimmy Bones' body has disappeared.
Pearl know that they have to burn the dress that was buried with Jimmy because the blood on the dress is what is actually keeping Jimmy alive the whole time.
As they look for Jimmy, Pearl steps in the elevator which closes and goes up.
Meanwhile, Jeremiah asks Jimmy what he wants.
He asks Jeremiah if he could give him his life back.
When Jeremiah says no, Jimmy sends him to hell for eternity.

Pearl gets off the elevator and walks into a room that is filled with ignited candles.
She has a flashback and Jimmy appears, and puts the bloody dress on her.
Patrick, Cynthia, and Bill head to the second floor where they see a ghostly Maurice, who leads Bill in the wrong direction where he is captured and killed.
Patrick tries to reach him but is too late.

Patrick and Cynthia make their way to the room where Pearl and Jimmy are at.
Patrick knows it's a trap.
As Cynthia is lured to Pearl and Jimmy, Patrick hears his father's voice in a mirror begging for help.
When Patrick hesitates, Jeremiah chokes him.
Patrick uses his knife to chop Jeremiah's arm off and he disappears into hell.
Patrick goes after Jimmy, who disappears and reappears behind Patrick's back much more demonic-looking.
He grabs Patrick by his throat, as Cynthia begs him to let go.
Pearl, realizing what is happening, tells Jimmy she loves him then grabs a candle and burns the dress.

Jimmy tries to stop her but he dies with Pearl, causing the whole building to collapse.
Patrick and Cynthia try to get to the exit before the building comes down.
They jump down the elevator shaft before escaping.
As Cynthia rests, Patrick finds an old picture of Jimmy and Pearl together.
He then hears Jimmy's voice say "dog eat dog, boy."
He turns around and sees Cynthia, smiling, with maggots in her mouth.
As she spits them at Patrick, the end credits begin.