The next day, Cindy Campbell (Anna Faris) meets up with her boyfriend Bobby Prinze (Jon Abrahams) and her friends, Brenda Meeks (Regina Hall), Ray Wilkins (Shawn Wayans), Greg Phillipe (Lochlyn Munro), and Buffy Gilmore (Shannon Elizabeth).
Various news teams, including hack reporter Gail Hailstorm (Cheri Oteri), converge on the school in the wake of Drew's death.
Gail hooks up with Buffy's mentally disabled brother "Special Officer" Doofy (Dave Sheridan) hoping to milk the facts out of him.

One day while Cindy is in class, she is with left a note reading: "I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST HALLOWEEN!"
Cindy then realizes that Drew was murdered exactly one year after she and her friends accidentally killed a man during a wild car ride.
The next day a series of increasingly bizarre events take place.
Various members of the group receive threatening notes from Ghostface and are rapidly dispatched.

Greg is killed by Ghostface in plain view during Buffy's pageant, the audience mistaking Buffy's screams as being part of her act.
Buffy, high on the success brought along by her win, ignores Cindy's warnings about the killer and does not realize she is being killed as it happens, even after she is decapitated (and the killer tosses her head in a Lost and Found bin).
Spoofing the opening to Scream 2, Ray and Brenda go to a showing of Shakespeare In Love, where Ray is stabbed in the ear through a bathroom stall and Brenda is killed by angry movie patrons because of her raucous behavior before Ghostface can.

Meanwhile, Cindy throws a house party, hoping for safety in numbers.
During the party, Bobby and Cindy go upstairs and have sex, no longer making Cindy a virgin.
Ghostface unexpectedly appears and stabs Bobby, before disappearing quickly.
Cindy gets a gun from a drawer near the entrance, Bobby follows and she tends to his wounds.
Shorty (Marlon Wayans), Brenda's Stoner brother, comes up from the basement and informs them that the killer has murdered everybody in the house.

Bobby takes the gun and shoots Shorty, revealing that his wound was an elaborate ruse.
Ray arrives on the scene, very much alive, and they announce their plan to kill her and her father (despite not actually being the killers).
Ray and Bobby also plan to make themselves look like heroes by giving each other stab wounds to indicate they fought back.
But their plan backfires when Ray stabs Bobby repeatedly and nearly kills him, angry because his favorite show, The Wayans Bros., has been cancelled.
Ghostface abruptly arrives and attacks Cindy after stabbing Ray to death, but she successfully subdues him by employing moves copied from The Matrix and kicks him through a window.
Nonetheless, Ghostface vanishes before the police arrive.

At the police station, Cindy and the local sheriff (Kurt Fuller) realize that Doofy, the only one who knew about the car accident, was actually faking his disability and is the true killer.
Unfortunately, Doofy has already escaped with Gail Hailstorm.
Upon finding his discarded disguise in the street, Cindy begins screaming, only to be hit by a car.