FBI Special Agent Sean Archer (John Travolta) has a personal vendetta against civil freelance terrorist Castor Troy (Nicolas Cage) after Castor killed Archer's son Michael while trying to assassinate Archer.
Archer learns of Castor's brother, Pollux Troy (played by Alessandro Nivola), making arrangements for a private jet, and sets a trap to capture both Castor and Pollux.
After an intense firefight, Archer corners Castor, who gloats about a bomb he has planted somewhere in Los Angeles, but he is knocked into a coma after he tries to pull a knife on Archer.

Although the plans for the bomb are found in Pollux's suitcase, Archer has no clue to its location.
At the request of a Special ops agent, he reluctantly agrees to undergo an experimental face transplant surgery, giving him the appearance of Castor; this process is only known to Archer's partner and close friend Tito, and the surgeon conducting the procedure, Dr. Malcolm Walsh.
The medical operation is a success: Archer's hair, muscles and other necessary physical parts are altered into Castor's and his face is switched with Castor's, whose now faceless head is bandaged and Archer's face is stored in a tank of water.
Archer (now played by Nicolas Cage) is taken to an offshore high security penitentiary, Erewhon Prison, and meets with Pollux, eventually gaining his confidence to learn the bomb's location.

Shortly after Archer gets the information he needs from Pollux, he is surprised when he is visited by Castor (now played by John Travolta), who has forced Dr. Walsh to give him Archer's face, then killed him and everyone with knowledge of the transplant surgery, and now plans to abuse Archer's job, his wife Eve (played by Joan Allen) and teenage daughter Jamie.

With Archer's face, Castor releases Pollux from prison by having him "confess" the location of their bomb so that Castor can "locate" it and play hero by disarming it single-handedly.
Castor's offbeat personality earns him respect that Archer never received, as Archer is more prone to ruining celebrations with reminders of the loss of life involved.
Simultaneously, Archer escapes from Erewhon by staging a jailbreak, taking out several guards on the way.

By this point, both men begin to see how their pursuits of each other affect the people around them.
Castor is much more affectionate and tender with Eve, even beating up a boy who attempts to rape Jamie, and also figures out that Jamie has never forgiven her father for failing to protect them after her brother's death.
Meanwhile, Archer visits Castor's bomb supplier Dietrich Hassler (Nick Cassavettes) and his sister, Castor's ex-girlfriend Sasha (Gina Gershon), and finds that Sasha's son Adam, whom he earlier had threatened to put in child protective services, is also Castor's child.
Archer finds Sasha to be a caring mother trying to raise her son all alone in rough conditions and feels bad for threatening her earlier.

When Castor learns of the prison break, he realizes that Archer will connect with his gang, and leads an FBI raid of his headquarters.
An intense shootout ensues in which most of Castor's old network is killed, including Pollux, and Archer is seriously wounded.
The next day, Castor is berated by the FBI Assistant Director in Charge Victor Lazarro (Harve Presnell), then kills Lazarro in a fit of rage and makes it look like a heart attack.
Castor himself is promoted to acting Assistant Director in Charge, making him virtually untouchable.
Meanwhile, Archer returns to his home and convinces Eve, a doctor herself, that he is Archer, which she later confirms via a blood sample she takes from Castor while he is sleeping.
She helps tend to his wounds, and explains that Castor will be at Lazarro's funeral the next day.

Archer waits to confront Castor after the funeral, but finds that Castor has taken Eve hostage.
A gunfight ensues between Castor, Archer and Castor's gang, under Archer's orders.
Sasha helps rescue Eve, but takes a bullet in protecting Archer; he promises to look after Adam as she dies.
Castor attempts to take Jamie hostage, but she retaliates by stabbing him in his thigh with a butterfly knife that Castor had taught her how to use.
Castor tries to escape using a nearby speedboat, followed closely by Archer.
The two boats crash ashore, and the two men turn to melee.
Castor, finding himself being overpowered, attempts to damage Archer's own face on himself as to make it unusable by Archer, but Archer kills him using a spear gun.
As the FBI arrive, Eve is able to explain Archer's true identity.
With the face transplant surgery reversed, Archer (once again played by John Travolta) returns to his family, helping to welcome Adam into his family, fulfilling his promise to Sasha.