Charley Brewster (Anton Yelchin) is a teenager living in a suburb of Las Vegas, Nevada, who discovers that a new neighbor has moved in next door to him.
Charley's former best friend, "Evil" Ed Lee (Christopher Mintz-Plasse), informs him that many fellow students have gone missing.
When Charley goes home after school, his mother Jane Brewster (Toni Collette) introduces him to Jerry (Colin Farrell), their new neighbor.
Charley becomes fed up with Ed after he claims that Jerry is a vampire.
On his way home, Ed is confronted by Jerry.
Jerry convinces Ed into believing that his life would be much better if he was a vampire, and Ed willingly allows Jerry to bite him.
The next day, Charley realizes that Ed is missing and decides to investigate.

As Jerry begins to attack more people throughout the neighborhood, Charley sneaks into Jerry's house and finds out that he keeps his victims in secret rooms.
Charley goes to Las Vegas magician Peter Vincent (David Tennant), a supposed expert on vampires.
Peter doesn't take him seriously, and kicks him out.

Jerry comes to Charley's house and sets fire to it.
Charley, Jane, and his girlfriend, Amy Peterson (Imogen Poots), barely escape with their lives, fleeing through the desert in their minivan.
Jerry catches up with them, but is wounded by Jane with a real estate sign stake.

Jane is admitted to a hospital, where Charley is summoned by Peter.
Upon arriving at Peter's penthouse, Ed and Jerry attack Charley, Amy, and Peter.
Charley reluctantly kills Ed, while Amy injures Jerry with holy water.
They then run into a club, where they get separated in the crowd.
Amy is kissed and bitten by Jerry.
Jerry then takes her.

Peter refuses to help Charley and reveals that both of his parents were killed by a vampire (later revealed to be Jerry himself).
He does, however, give Charley a stake blessed by Saint Michael that will kill Jerry and turn all of his victims back into humans.
Charley goes to Jerry's house where Peter decides to join him after all.

They are led into Jerry's basement, where they are attacked by many of Jerry's victims, including Amy.
Charley, having outfitted himself in a flame-retardant suit, lights himself on fire in order to burn and disorient Jerry while he tries to stake him.
Peter assists him by shooting a hole in the floor above to allow sunlight in which burns Jerry, then tossing Charley the stake which Charley dropped.
Charley quickly stabs Jerry in the heart, killing him and returning his victims to their human form.
Afterwards, Charley's mother recovers from the hospital and goes to shop for a new house as Charley and Amy make love in Peter's penthouse.