Kevin Lomax, a defense attorney in Gainesville, Florida, has never lost a case.
He defends a schoolteacher, Gettys, against a charge of child molestation.
During the trial, Kevin realizes that his client is guilty, and a reporter tells him that a guilty verdict is all but inevitable.
However, through a harsh cross-examination Kevin destroys the credibility of the victim, Barbara, and secures another not guilty verdict.

As he celebrates, Kevin is approached by a representative of the New York law firm Milton, Chadwick & Waters, who offers him a large sum of money to help the firm with a jury selection.
After Kevin's jury delivers a not guilty verdict, John Milton offers him a large salary and a swanky apartment if he joins the firm.
Despite warnings from his Evangelical Christian mother, Alice, about sinful big city life, Kevin accepts the job and moves with his wife Mary Ann to Manhattan.

Kevin first defends a Voudou shaman, Phillipe Moyez, who is arrested for ritually sacrificing animals.
He compares the incident to kashrut law and claims that his client is protected under freedom of religion, winning the case.
Kevin spends an increasing amount of time at work, leaving Mary Ann feeling isolated.
Kevin's mother visits New York, and after seeing Mary Ann, suggests that they both return to Gainesville.
Kevin however, refuses.

Kevin next defends Alexander Cullen, a billionaire real-estate developer, accused of murdering his wife, her step-child, and a maid.
This case demands more of Kevin's time, further separating him from Mary Ann.
He begins having fantasies about his seductive co-worker Christabella Andreoli, while Mary Ann begins to have a mental breakdown.
Mary Ann claims that the wives of the other partners at the firm are demons after she sees their faces briefly become demonic.
Her sanity further erodes following a nightmare she has where a baby plays with her removed ovaries and she finds her gown covered in blood, and after a doctor declares her infertile.
She ineffectually begs Kevin that they return to Gainesville.
Milton suggests that Kevin step down from the trial to tend to his wife, but Kevin again refuses, claiming that he will not be able to love his wife again until he wins the Cullen trial.

Eddie Barzoon, the firm's managing attorney, is convinced that Kevin is competing for his job after finding his name in the company papers as a partner.
Although Kevin denies any knowledge, Eddie threatens to inform the United States Attorney's office about the situation.
Kevin tells Milton about Eddie's threats, but Milton is unconcerned, sarcastically dismissing Barzoon as "God's special little creature" for his misplaced ambition and attitude.
At that moment, Eddie is beaten to death by vagrants, who take on demonic appearances.
Mary Ann witnesses this, disturbing her even further.

While preparing Cullen's secretary and mistress Melissa Black to testify about Cullen's alibi, Kevin realizes she is lying and tells Milton he believes Cullen is guilty.
Milton offers to back Kevin regardless.
Kevin decides to proceed with her testimony and wins an acquittal.
After the trial, Kevin finds Mary Ann in a nearby church, naked and scratched with claw marks.
She tells her husband that Milton raped and mutilated her, but Kevin saw Milton in court with him at the time of the alleged attack; he believes that Mary Ann injured herself, and has her committed to a mental institution.

Kevin is approached by U.S. Attorney Mitch Weaver about how the firm is under investigation by the US Government for illegal activities in drugs and weapons.
Initially Kevin ignores him, but Weaver gains his attention after he tells him about the discovery of a dead girl in the car trunk of his former client in Florida, Gettys.
While approaching Kevin, Weaver is hit and killed by a car.
Alice returns to New York, having heard of Mary Ann's condition.
She, along with Kevin and Pam Garrety, Kevin's case manager at the firm, visit Mary Ann at the mental institution.
Alone with Mary Ann, Pam appears as a demon through a mirror.
Mary Ann attacks Pam with the mirror and locks herself in the room.
As Kevin tries to break down the door, Mary Ann takes a piece of broken glass from the mirror and cuts her throat with it, killing herself.

Before he can mourn, Alice reveals that Milton is Kevin's father.
Kevin leaves the hospital to confront Milton, who gleefully admits to raping Mary Ann.
Kevin fires a pistol into Milton's chest, but the bullets have no effect.
Kevin realizes that Milton is not only his father, but also Satan himself.
Kevin blames Milton for everything that happened, but Milton explains that he merely "set the stage", and that Kevin could have left at any time.
Kevin eventually admits to this, realizing that he always wanted to win, no matter the cost, and left Mary Ann behind.
Milton explains his time and plans on Earth, similar to the position Satan takes in "Paradise Lost", and that he wants Kevin and Christabella, who is Kevin's half-sister, to conceive a child: the Antichrist.
However, Kevin rejects his Satanic heritage, citing free will just as Milton had earlier, and shoots himself in the head, ruining Milton's plan.

Kevin suddenly wakes up, back at the recess of the Gettys trial, with everything in the film from the end of the original recess up to his suicide having been revealed to all have been in his imagination.
After realizing his potential future, Kevin announces in court that he can no longer represent his client, despite the threat of being disbarred.
The reporter from the beginning of the film follows Kevin and Mary Ann as they leave the courthouse in disorder, pleading for an interview and promising to make Kevin a star for his unexpectedly moral decision.
After some prodding from Mary Ann, Kevin reluctantly agrees.
After Kevin and Mary Ann leave, the reporter shapeshifts into a grinning Milton.
Breaking the fourth wall, he says, "Vanity — definitely my favorite sin."