Sergeant Edmund "Ed" Exley (Guy Pearce), the son of a legendary LAPD detective, is determined to live up to his father's reputation.
His intelligence, insistence on following regulations, and his cold demeanor contribute to his social isolation from other officers.
He exacerbates this resentment by volunteering to testify in a police brutality case, insisting on a promotion to Detective Lieutenant (which he receives) against the advice of Captain Dudley Smith (James Cromwell).
It is revealed that Exley's consuming ambition is fueled in large part by the murder of his father by an unknown assailant.

Officer Wendell "Bud" White (Russell Crowe), whom Exley considers a "mindless thug", is a plainclothes officer obsessed with violently punishing woman-beaters.
White comes to dislike Ed after White's partner, Dick Stensland, is fired due to Exley's testimony in the Bloody Christmas scandal.
White is sought out by Dudley for a job intimidating out-of-town criminals trying to fill the void left in Los Angeles following the imprisonment of Mickey Cohen, the city's most successful and notorious gangster.
The Nite Owl case becomes personal after Stensland is found to be one of the victims.

Sergeant Jack Vincennes (Kevin Spacey) is a slick and likable narcotics detective who moonlights as the technical advisor on Badge of Honor, a popular Dragnet-style TV crime program.
He is also connected with Sid Hudgens (Danny DeVito), publisher of Hush-Hush magazine, receiving kickbacks for tipping Hudgens off to celebrity arrests that will attract even more readers to the magazine.
When young actor Matt Reynolds (Simon Baker) winds up dead during one of these schemes, a guilt-ridden Vincennes is determined to find who did it.

At different intervals, the three men investigate the Nite Owl killings, which initially looked like simply a botched robbery, and concurrent events which in turn begin to reveal indications of corruption all around them.
Exley pursues absolute justice, all the while trying to live up to his family name.
White pursues Nite Owl victim Susan Lefferts, which leads him to Lynn Bracken (Kim Basinger), a Veronica Lake look-alike prostitute with ties to the case he and Exley are independently investigating.

Vincennes, meanwhile, follows up on a pornography racket with ties to both the Nite Owl and Bracken's wealthy pimp Pierce Patchett (David Strathairn), operator of Fleur-de-Lis, a call-girl service that runs prostitutes altered by plastic surgery to resemble popular film stars.
All three men's fates are intertwined.
A dramatic showdown eventually occurs with powerful and corrupt forces within the city's political leadership and the department.

It is revealed that Captain Smith was behind the Nite Owl killings, in an effort to take over the heroin empire that the arrested Mickey Cohen left behind.
After tying up lose ends, including Vincennes, Hudgens and Patchett, Smith sends hitmen to kill White and Exley.

Following a shootout, Smith shoots White but then surrenders to Exley.
As police arrive, Exley shoots Smith in the back, killing him.
Exley is praised as a hero and the Police Department launch a top-to-bottom investigation of their men.
Upon leaving City Hall, Exley sees Bracken, who tells him she is has quit being a prostitute and is moving back home to Arizona.
In the back of her car sits White, who survived his gunshot wounds but is unable to talk.
Exley and White shake hands and Bracken drives off into the sunset.