Despite deadly and dangerous incidents being connected with Isla Sorna, tourists Ben Hildebrand and Eric Kirby decide to parasail around the island.
A pterosaur flies by and attacks the crew, but Ben uncouples the line and they go sailing into the wilderness of Isla Sorna.

Meanwhile, Dr. Alan Grant has become famous as a result of his survival and involvement in the scandal of Jurassic Park and subsequent dinosaur attacks.
Ellie Sattler has married a lawyer named Mark Delger and has a son, Charlie, who calls Alan "The Dinosaur Man."
One afternoon, while out on a dig, Alan's assistant, Billy demonstrates how he can use a 3D printer to replicate the larynx of a Velociraptor, and he gives the piece to Alan.
They also discuss how velociraptors are far more intelligent than they had previously believed, and had a complex social structure and hunting pattern.
A wealthy couple, Paul and Amanda Kirby, drop by and offer Alan some generous funding for his research if he will give them an aerial tour of Isla Sorna.
Alan reluctantly agrees.
He flies there along with Paul and Amanda, Billy, plus Kirbys' associates, Udesky, Cooper and their pilot, Nash.
The group flies over the plains of Isla Sorna, which contain Brachiosauruses, Parasaurolophuses, Corythosauruses, Triceratops, and Stegosauruses.

Alan learns that the Kirbys plan to land on the island, which contradicts what they had earlier promised.
When he objects, he is knocked out by Cooper, only to awaken to the sound of Amanda calling out to someone on the island using a bullhorn.
This attracts a Spinosaurus and Cooper manages to lead it into the path of the plane before he is devoured.
The plane then crashes into a tree and the Spinosaurus attacks the plane, killing Nash.
The Spinosaurus soon departs and the others escape.
As they continue to flee to safety, a Tyrannosaurus appears and the humans escape while both animals are distracted by fighting with each other, before the Spinosaurus kills the T. rex by snapping its neck.

Alan demands an explanation about what is really going on and the Kirbys confeess they're actually a middle-class divorced couple who are using their life savings to look for their lost son, Eric, who vanished near Isla Sorna with Ben eight weeks ago, while Amanda, Ben, and Eric were on vacation.
Alan is dubious that Eric could have survived eight weeks on Isla Sorna.
Further exploration leads to them finding the parasail enangled in a tree, Ben's decaying body still attached.
A video recorder shows them Ben and Eric's final descent onto the island.
They stumble upon some raptor eggs, so they flee, taking the parasail with them.
They find an abandoned compound and search in vain for communications equipment.
After finding a broken-down vending machine and phones, they make their way to a derelict laboratory.

Amanda sees a 'Velociraptor' and the group flees, but the pursuing velociraptor signals its pack mates to chase them, demonstrating the complex social structure and coordinated actions earlier theorized by Alan and Billy.
During the ensuing chase, Udesky and Grant become separated from the others after causing a herd of Corythosaurus and Parasaurolophus to stampede, and Udesky is killed by the raptors.
Alan is rescued by Eric, who has managed to survive for eight weeks in an overturned supply truck, clearly impressing Alan.
Eric recognizes the sound of his father's satellite phone, which was lost when Nash was devoured; they're reunited with the Kirbys and Billy before the Spinosaurus arrives again.
They hide inside a small building and bar the doors.
After failed attempts to open the doors, the Spinosaurus leaves.

Billy becomes possessive of his satchel, and Alan realizes he has taken two eggs from the raptor's nest in hopes the contents will fund their next dig, which explains the raptor's attacks.
Alan berates Billy for his careless behavior, comparing him to InGen.
They make their way to a large outdoor complex, and Alan realizes in horror that the complex is a giant cage to house Pteranodons; they attack the group and fly away with Eric, taking him to be eaten by their young.
Billy uses the remnants of Ben's para sail to rescue Eric, shortly before he falls into the river below, then is attacked and seemingly killed by a group of Pteranodons.

The group find their way out of the cage and make their way down river using a small boat.
Alan is shocked by Billy's 'death' and explains to Eric that Billy was a person who wanted to do something, not just sit by and watch.
The boat passes by a valley containing herds of Brachiosaurus, Parasaurolophus, Corythosaurus, Stegosaurus and Ankylosaurus while Eric states that "Billy was right".

The group finds and retrieves the satellite phone from inside the feces left by the Spinosaurus.
A Ceratosaurus appears and is repulsed by the smell.
The Spinosaurus attacks and capsizes the boat as Alan is trying to contact Ellie, and he is only able to convey the words "The River, Site B" before he is disconnected.
Alan and Paul manage to drive off the Spinosaurus, and they start making their way toward the shoreline.
Close to their goal, they are surrounded by raptors who see Amanda as a female 'leader' and a threat to their clutch.
Using the imitation raptor larynx, Alan manages to communicate with the raptors and Amanda returns the stolen eggs before the raptors are startled off by the sounds of helicopters.

Returning to the beach, they find that Ellie had called in the U.S. Marine Corps and the U.S. Navy to rescue them.
They then discover that Billy, while seriously injured, is still alive, and even has Alan's hat, which he had lost earlier.
As they leave the island, they see the Pteranodon group flying free, and Alan recounts that it's time for them to find their place in the world again.
The Pteranodons fly off into the clouds, seemingly happy of being freed of their cage.