A canary yellow vintage Super Bee pulls up short on a New York City street, and Monty Brogan gets out with his buddy Kostya to look at a dog lying in the road.
The animal was mauled in a dogfight and Monty intends to shoot him but changes his mind after he looks him in the eye and decides to take him to a nearby clinic instead.

Fast forward to late 2002.
Monty is about to begin serving a seven-year prison sentence for dealing drugs.
He sits in the park with his dog, Doyle, on his last day of freedom.
He plans to meet childhood friends Frank and Jacob at a club with his girlfriend Naturelle.
Frank Slaughtery is a hotshot trader on Wall Street and Jacob Elinsky is an introverted high school teacher with a crush on one of his 11th grade students.

Monty visits his father, James, a former firefighter and recovering alcoholic who owns a bar, to confirm their plans to drive to the prison the following morning.
Monty's drug money helped him keep the bar, so a remorseful James sneaks a drink when Monty goes to the bathroom.
Facing himself in the mirror, Monty lashes out in his mind against everyone else: all the New York stereotypes he can think of, from the cabbies to the firefighters, the corner grocers to the mobsters, as if he hates them all.
Finally, he turns on himself, revealing that he is actually angry for getting greedy and having not given up drug dealing before he was caught.

Monty sold drugs for Uncle Nikolai, a Russian mobster.
Kostya tries to persuade Monty it was Naturelle who turned him in, since she knew where he hid his drugs and money.
Monty refused to turn state's evidence against Nikolai but he's not sure what Nikolai will do at the club that night.
He remembers how he met Naturelle when she was 17, hanging around his old school, and how happy they were before he was arrested.
He asks Frank to find out if it was Naturelle who betrayed him.

At the club, Jacob sees his student, Mary, so Monty invites her in with them.
Discussing what kind of a future Monty can have after prison, Frank says they can open a bar together, even though he told Jacob he believes Monty's life is over and he deserves his sentence for dealing drugs.
Frank baits Naturelle by accusing her of living high on Monty's money, not caring where it came from, but she reminds him that he knew as well and said nothing.
Jacob, meanwhile, finds the courage to kiss Mary, but both appear to be in shock afterwards and go their separate ways.

Monty and Kostya go down to talk with Uncle Nikolai, who gives Monty advice on surviving in prison.
Nikolai then reveals it was Kostya, not Naturelle, who betrayed him, and offers Monty a chance to kill Kostya in exchange for protecting his father's bar.
Monty refuses, reminding Nikolai that he asked Monty to trust Kostya in the first place.
He walks out, leaving Kostya to be killed by the Russian mobsters.

After he tells Naturelle that he's sorry he mistrusted her, Monty has one last thing to do.
He goes to the park, where he asks Jacob to look after Doyle.
Then he admits that he is terrified of being raped in prison, whereupon he asks Frank to beat him, saying if he goes in ugly he might have a chance at survival.
Frank refuses, so Monty deliberately provokes him until Jacob intervenes and Monty attacks him.
Frank is goaded into taking out his frustration, leaving Monty bruised and bloody, with a broken nose.
Frank is in tears as Monty gets up and goes home.

Naturelle tries to comfort him as Monty's father arrives to take him to Otisville.
On the drive to prison, James suggests they go west, into hiding, giving Monty one last vision of freedom.
Once again Monty sees a parade of faces from the streets of the city, followed by a vision of a future where Monty avoids imprisonment, reunites with Naturelle, starts a family, and grows old.
As the fantasy ends, we see Monty, his eyes closed and face still bruised, sitting in the passenger's seat of the car, which has driven past the bridge to the west and towards prison.