In Clairton, a small working-class town in western Pennsylvania, in late 1967, Russian American steel workers Michael "Mike" Vronsky, Steven Pushkov, and Nikanor "Nick" Chevotarevich, with the support of their friends and coworkers Stanley and Peter "Axel" Axelrod and local bar owner and friend John Welsh, prepare for two rites of passage: marriage and military service.

The opening scenes set the character traits of the three main characters.
Mike is the no-nonsense, serious but unassuming leader, Steven the loving, near-groom, pecked at by his mother for not wearing a scarf with his tuxedo and Nick is the quiet, introspective man who loves hunting because, he likes ".
.
.
the trees .
.
.
the way the trees are .
.
."
The recurring theme of "one shot", which is how Mike prefers to take down a deer, is introduced.
Before the trio ships out, Steven and his girlfriend Angela, who is pregnant by another man but loved by Steven nonetheless, marry in an Orthodox wedding.
In the meantime, Mike contains his feelings for Nick's girlfriend Linda.

At the wedding reception held at the local VFW bar, the guys get drunk, dance, sing, and have a good time, but then notice a soldier in a U.S. Army Special Forces uniform.
Mike buys him a drink and tries starting a conversation with him to find out what Vietnam is like, but is ignored.
After Mike explains that he, Steven, and Nick are going to Vietnam, the Green Beret raises his glass and says "fuck it".
The soldier again toasts them with "fuck it".
After being restrained by the others from starting a fight, Mike goes back to the bar and in a mocking jest to the soldier, raises his glass and toasts him with "fuck it".
The soldier then glances over at Mike and grins.
Later, Steven and Angela drink from conjoined goblets, this being a traditional ceremony, and it is believed that if they drink without spilling any wine, they will have good luck for life.
A drop of blood-red wine is unknowingly spilled on her wedding gown, foreshadowing the coming events.

After Linda catches the bouquet of flowers thrown by Angela, Nick asks her to marry him, and she agrees.
Later that night, a drunken Mike runs through the town, stripping himself naked along the way.
After Nick chases him down he begs Mike not to leave him "over there" if anything happens.
The next day, Mike, Nick, Stanley, John and Axel go deer hunting one last time, and Michael again kills a deer with "one shot".