In the small town of Blithe Hollow, Massachusetts, a boy named Norman Babcock (Kodi Smit-McPhee) is able to speak with the dead, including his late grandmother (Elaine Stritch) and various ghosts in town.
Almost no one believes him and he is isolated emotionally from his family while being ridiculed by his peers.

Norman becomes friends with Neil Downe (Tucker Albrizzi), an overweight boy who is bullied himself and finds Norman a kindred spirit.
During rehearsal of a school play commemorating the town's witch execution of three centuries ago, Norman has a vision of the town's past and being pursued as a witch by the town's citizenry.
Afterward, the boys are confronted by Norman's estranged and seemingly deranged uncle Mr. Prenderghast (John Goodman) who tells his nephew that he soon must take up his regular ritual to protect the town.
Soon after this encounter, Prenderghast dies.

During the official performance of the school play Norman has another vision, creating a public spectacle of himself, which leads to his father (Jeff Garlin) grounding him.
His mother (Leslie Mann) tells him that his father's stern manner is because he is afraid for him.
The next day, Norman is confronted by the Prenderghast's ghost who tells him that the ritual must be performed with a certain book before sundown that day.
Norman is at first reluctant to go because he is scared but his grandmother tells him it is all right to be scared as long as you do not let it change who you are.
Norman sets off to retrieve the book from Prederghast's house (having to take it form his dead body).
He then goes to the graves of the five men and two women who were cursed by the witch they condemned, but finds the book is merely a series of fairy tales.

Alvin (Christopher Mintz-Plasse), a school bully, interferes with the reading until after sundown.
A ghostly storm resembling the witch appears in the air while the cursed dead arise and pursue the boys until they meet Norman's sister, Courtney (Anna Kendrick), Neil and his older brother, Mitch (Casey Affleck), who have come to retrieve Norman.
The kids are pursued by the zombies into town, but Norman contacts classmate Salma (Hannah Noyes) for help.
She tells them to access the Town Hall's archives for the location of the witch's unmarked grave.

As the kids make their way to the Town Hall, the zombies are attacked by the citizenry.
During the riot, the kids break into the archives but cannot find the information they need.
As the mob moves to attack Town Hall, the witch storm appears and Norman climbs the Hall's tower to read the book, but the witch strikes it with lightning and causes him to fall back down into the archives.

Unconscious, Norman has a dream where he learns that the witch was Agatha Prenderghast (Jodelle Micah Ferland), a little girl of his age who was also a medium.
Norman also learns that Agatha was wrongfully convicted by the town council after they mistook her powers as witchcraft.
After awakening, Norman encounters the zombies and realizes that they were the same town council who convicted Agatha.
The zombies then admit that they only wanted to speak with him to ensure he would take up the ritual to minimize the harm of the mistake they made towards Agatha.

Norman attempts to help the zombies slip away to have them guide him to Agatha's grave, but are cornered by the mob.
Courtney confronts the crowd and convinces them to back off.
Judge Hopkins (Bernard Hill) guides Norman's family to the grave in a forest.
Before the grave is reached, Agatha's magic separates Norman from the others.

Norman finds the grave and interacts with Agatha in the spirit dimension, determined to stop the cataclysmic tantrum she had been having over the years.
She asks him to leave her be, but Norman holds his ground, telling her he understands how she feels as an outcast.
Norman endures her assault and eventually convinces her that her vengeance is accomplishing nothing and persuades her to stop.
Norman tells her that there must have been someone who was kind to her.

Agatha recalls happy memories with her mother.
She is able to find a measure of peace and move on to the afterlife.
The storm dissipates, and she and the zombies all fade away.
The town cleans up and regards Norman as a hero.
At the end, Norman watches a horror film with the ghost of his grandmother, and his family joins him.