Barton Fink is enjoying the success of his first Broadway play, Bare Ruined Choirs.
His agent informs him that Capitol Pictures in Hollywood has offered him a thousand dollars per week to write film scripts.
Barton hesitates, worried that moving to California would separate him from "the common man," his focus as a writer.
He accepts the offer, however, and checks into the Hotel Earle, a large and unusually deserted building.
His room is sparse and draped in subdued colors; its only decoration is a small painting of a woman on the beach, arm raised to block the sun.

In his first meeting with Capitol Pictures boss Jack Lipnick, Barton explains that he chose the Earle because he wants lodging that is (as Lipnick says) "less Hollywood."
Lipnick promises that his only concern is Barton's writing ability and assigns his new employee to a wrestling film.
Back in his room, however, Barton is unable to write.
He is distracted by sounds coming from the room next door, and he phones the front desk to complain.
His neighbor, Charlie Meadows, is the source of the noise and visits Barton to apologize, insisting on sharing some alcohol from a hip flask to make amends.
As they talk, Barton proclaims his affection for "the common man," and Charlie describes his life as an insurance salesman.
Later, Barton falls asleep, but is awoken by the incessant whine of a mosquito.

Still unable to proceed beyond the first lines of his script, Barton consults producer Ben Geisler for advice.
Irritated, the frenetic Geisler takes him to lunch and orders him to speak with another writer for assistance.
While in the bathroom, Barton meets the novelist William Preston (W.P.)
"Bill" Mayhew, who is vomiting in the next stall.
They briefly discuss movie writing and arrange a second meeting later in the day.
When Barton arrives, Mayhew is drunk and yelling wildly.
His secretary, Audrey Taylor, reschedules the meeting and confesses to Barton that she and Mayhew are in love.
When they finally meet for lunch, Mayhew, Audrey, and Barton discuss writing and drinking.
Before long, Mayhew argues with Audrey, slaps her and wanders off, drunk.
Rejecting Barton's offer of consolation, she explains that she feels sorry for Mayhew since he is married to another woman who is "disturbed."