In a frame story, a man (Peter Falk) reads from a book to his sick grandson (Fred Savage).
Scenes of the reading occasionally interrupt the main story.
A young woman named Buttercup (Robin Wright) lives on a farm in the country of Florin.
Whenever she gives her farm boy Westley (Cary Elwes) an order, he answers "as you wish" and happily complies.
Eventually, she realizes that he loves her and that she loves him too.
Westley leaves to seek his fortune so they can marry, but his ship is attacked by the Dread Pirate Roberts, who famously never leaves anyone alive.

Five years later, believing Westley to be dead, Buttercup reluctantly agrees to marry Prince Humperdinck (Chris Sarandon), heir to the throne of Florin.
Before the wedding, she is kidnapped by three outlaws: a Sicilian boss named Vizzini (Wallace Shawn), a giant named Fezzik (André the Giant), and a Spanish master fencer named Inigo Montoya (Mandy Patinkin), who seeks revenge against the six-fingered man who killed his father.
Two separate forces pursue them: Prince Humperdinck with a complement of soldiers, and a masked man in black.
Unbeknownst to Buttercup, Prince Humperdinck actually hired the outlaws to kidnap her and kill her, leaving her on the shores of Guilder, a rival country, in order to manufacture a war between the two countries.

The man in black catches up to the outlaws at the top of the Cliffs of Insanity, where he first defeats Inigo in a duel before knocking him unconscious.
He then defeats Fezzik in hand-to-hand combat by choking him from behind until he blacks out.
Finally, he kills Vizzini in a battle of wits by tricking him into drinking poison, and so captures Buttercup.
When he tells her he is Roberts, she becomes enraged at him for killing Westley and shoves him into a gorge, but as he falls he calls out "As you wish!"
and she realizes he is also Westley himself (since the previous Roberts had retired).
She dives into the gorge after him, and they flee through the dangerous Fire Swamp where they navigate past the fire spouts, lightning sand, and Rodents of Unusual Size.
When they are captured on the other side by Humperdinck and his sadistic six-fingered vizier Count Rugen (Christopher Guest), Buttercup agrees to return with Humperdinck in exchange for Westley's release, but Humperdinck secretly has Rugen imprison and torture Westley in the 'Pit of Despair' where he meets the Albino (Mel Smith).

When Buttercup expresses unhappiness at marrying Humperdinck, he promises to search for Westley.
Eventually Buttercup realizes he is lying, taunting him as a coward, but still not knowing his plans to kill her.
Enraged, Humperdinck tortures Westley to his death.
Meanwhile, Inigo and Fezzik reunite, and Fezzik informs Inigo of Rugen's existence.
Inigo decides that they need the help of the man in black to get into the castle.
They hear cries of anguish, realize that he is being tortured, and reach Rugen's torture chamber to find Westley dead.
But they bring him to a miracle man named Miracle Max (Billy Crystal), who explains that Westley is "only mostly dead", and supplies a pill to revive him.
With the wedding imminent, they give the pill too soon and he awakens with paralysis.

Westley, Inigo, and Fezzik invade the castle, prompting Humperdinck to drastically abridge the wedding ceremony.
Then he rushes Buttercup to her chambers and locks her in.
Inigo finds and duels with Rugen, despite being seriously wounded early in the battle, he is able to maintain his focus by repeatedly reciting his long-rehearsed greeting of vengeance ("Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya.
You killed my father.
Prepare to die.")
and eventually slays his nemesis.
Westley finds Buttercup about to commit suicide, and assures her that her marriage is void because they skipped the "I do."
When the two are confronted by Humperdinck, Westley bluffs his way out of a duel (due to his temporary paralysis) and succeeds in tying Humperdinck to a chair, leaving him to contemplate his cowardice.
Triumphant, he rides away happily with Buttercup, Inigo, and Fezzik on four white horses that Fezzik conveniently discovers.

Westley and Buttercup share a passionate kiss.
As the grandfather prepares to leave, the boy asks him to read the story again the next day.
The grandfather smiles and replies, "As you wish."