Halloween Town is a fantasy world filled with citizens such as deformed monsters, ghosts, ghouls, goblins, vampires, werewolves and witches.
Jack Skellington ("The Pumpkin King") leads them in organizing the annual Halloween holiday, but he has grown tired of the same routine year after year.
Wandering dejectedly in the forest outside the cemetery, he accidentally opens a portal to "Christmas Town", whose residents are charged with organizing the annual Christmas holiday, under the guidance of Santa Claus.
Impressed by the feeling and style of Christmas, Jack presents his findings and his understanding of the festivities to the Halloween Town residents.
They fail to grasp his meaning and compare everything he says to their idea of Halloween.
He reluctantly decides to play along, and announces that they will take over Christmas.

Jack's obsession with Christmas leads him to usurp the role of Santa.
Every resident is assigned a task, while Sally, a rag doll woman who is created by the town's mad scientist, begins to feel a romantic attraction towards Jack.
However, she alone fears that his plans will become disastrous.
Jack assigns Lock, Shock and Barrel, a trio of mischievous children, to abduct Santa and bring him back to Halloween Town.
Against Jack's wishes and largely for their amusement, the trio deliver Santa to Oogie Boogie, a gambling-addict bogeyman who plots to play a game with Santa's life at stake.

Christmas Eve arrives and Sally attempts to stop Jack with fog, but he embarks into the sky on a coffin-like sleigh pulled by skeletal reindeer, guided by the glowing nose of his ghost dog Zero.
He begins to deliver presents to children around the world, but the gifts (shrunken heads, Christmas tree-eating snakes, pumpkin jack-in-the-boxes, etc.)
only terrify the recipients.
Jack is believed to be an imposter attempting to imitate Santa, and the military goes on alert to blast him out of the sky.
The sleigh is shot down and he is presumed dead by Halloween Town's citizens, but in fact he has survived the crash, landing in a cemetery.
Although he is depressed by the failure of his plan, he quickly regains his old spirit, having come up with new ideas for next Halloween.
He then rushes back home to rescue Santa and put things right.

Meanwhile, Sally attempts to free Santa, but is captured by Oogie.
Jack slips into the lair and frees them, then angrily confronts Oogie.
Almost immediately, Oogie springs a surprise trap on Jack and is about to escape, when Jack pulls one of Oogie's loose threads, revealing him to be nothing more than a collection of snakes and insects, which are all incinerated.

With Oogie gone, Santa reprimands Jack before setting off to deliver the right presents to the world's children.
After Jack returns and Christmas is over, Santa makes snow fall over Halloween Town to show that there are no hard feelings between himself and Jack.
The townspeople are confused by the snow at first, but soon begin to play happily in it, finally realizing what Christmas is about.
Jack spies Sally heading to the graveyard and follows her.
Atop the graveyard's big hill, Jack reveals that he reciprocates Sally's romantic attraction to him.
As they admit their love, they embrace under the full moon in the cemetery.