During the American Revolution in 1776, Benjamin Martin (Mel Gibson), a veteran of the French and Indian War and widower with seven children, is called to Charleston to vote in the South Carolina General Assembly on a levy supporting the Continental Army.
Fearing war against Great Britain, Benjamin abstains.
Captain James Wilkins (Adam Baldwin) votes against and joins the Loyalists.
A supporting vote is nonetheless passed and against his father's wishes, Benjamin's eldest son Gabriel (Heath Ledger) joins the Continental Army.

Some years later, Charleston falls to the British and a wounded Gabriel returns home carrying dispatches.
The Martins care for both British and American wounded from the nearby battle, before British Dragoons led by the ruthless Colonel William Tavington (Jason Isaacs) arrive and arrest Gabriel.
When Benjamin's young son Thomas tries to free Gabriel, he is shot and killed by Tavington, who orders the Martins' house burned and wounded Americans executed.
After the British leave, Benjamin gives his next two eldest sons muskets and they ambush the British unit escorting a shackled Gabriel.
Benjamin skillfully, yet brutally, kills many soldiers with his tomahawk.
A British survivor tells Tavington of the attack, earning Benjamin the moniker of the "Ghost".
Benjamin and Gabriel resolve to fight the British, leaving the younger children in the care of Benjamin's sister-in-law, Charlotte (Joely Richardson).
On their way to the Continental Army's camp, they witness the southern Continental Army under General Horatio Gates engaging the British Army.
Benjamin recognizes the foolishness of the action and sure enough, the Continentals are defeated and flee in disarray.

Benjamin meets his former commanding officer, Colonel Harry Burwell (Chris Cooper), who makes him colonel of the local colonial militia due to his combat experience.
Benjamin is tasked with keeping Lord Cornwallis's (Tom Wilkinson) regiments pinned south through guerrilla warfare.
French Major Jean Villeneuve (Tchéky Karyo) helps train the militia and promises more French aid.
Benjamin's militia harass British supply lines, even capturing some of Cornwallis' personal effects, and burn half the bridges and ferries leading to Charleston.
Lord Cornwallis blames Tavington for creating this reaction with his brutal tactics.
However, irritated at the lack of progress and insulted by Benjamin's clever ploy to free some of the captured militia, Cornwallis reluctantly allows Tavington to use whatever means necessary.

With the reluctant aid of Captain Wilkins, Tavington learns the identities of some militia members and proceeds to attack their families and burn their homes.
Benjamin's family flees Charlotte's plantation as it is burned, to live in a Gullah settlement with former black slaves.
There, Gabriel marries his betrothed Anne (Lisa Brenner) and Benjamin commits to Charlotte.
Tavington's brigade rides into the town that supplies the militia.
He assembles all the townspeople into the church, promising freedom in exchange for the whereabouts of the rebels.
However, after the location is given the doors are barricaded, trapping the people as Tavington orders the church razed.
After discovering the tragedy, Gabriel races to attack Tavington's encampment.
In the ensuing fight, Tavington mortally wounds Gabriel.
Benjamin arrives, only to have his son die in his arms.

Benjamin mourns deeply and wavers in his commitment to continue fighting, but is resolved when reminded of his son's dedication to the cause by finding an American flag he repaired personally.
Martin's militia, along with a larger Continental Army regiment, confronts Cornwallis' regiment in a decisive battle.
The British appear to have the upper hand until Benjamin rallies the troops forward against their lines and Tavington rushes to personally target him.
The two duel and Tavington gains the upper hand, delivering several wounds to Benjamin.
Defeated Benjamin slumps to his knees, and Tavington prepares to deliver the coup de grâce, ending Benjamin's quest for vengeance.
At the last second, Benjamin dodges the attack and counters with a bayonet to Tavington's torso, avenging his sons' deaths.
The battle is a Continental victory and Cornwallis is forced to retreat.
After many eventual retreats, Cornwallis is besieged at Yorktown, Virginia where he surrenders to the surrounding Continental Army and the long-awaited French naval force.
After the conflict ends, Benjamin returns with his family and discovers his militia men rebuilding his homestead in their new nation.