In 1996, LAPD Sgt.
John Spartan leads a Special Operations unit on an unauthorized mission to rescue hostages taken by the psychopathic career criminal Simon Phoenix and his henchmen.
After a thermal scan reveals no sign of the hostages, Spartan enters Phoenix's stronghold, engages Phoenix's men and captures him.
Before he is arrested, Phoenix detonates several barrels of C4, destroying the building.
The hostages' bodies are found in the rubble, Phoenix pleads his regard and Spartan is charged with their deaths.
Both men are sentenced to a "CryoPrison", where they are cryogenically frozen and exposed to subconscious rehabilitation techniques.

In 2032, Phoenix escapes the prison during a parole hearing.
Easily killing the warden, armed guards and several peace officers he encounters, Phoenix demonstrates superior speed, strength, agility and martial arts skills.
He is also multi-lingual, proficient with future technology and has acute sensory skills.
After a great earthquake 22 years prior, the cities of Los Angeles, San Diego and Santa Barbara have merged into the utopian San Angeles, under the pacifist guidance of Dr. Raymond Cocteau.
Weapons and vices have been outlawed, choice desires (sex, children, etc.)
have been regulated and the San Angeles Police (SAPD) are incapable of dealing with criminals like Phoenix.
Veteran officer Zachary Lamb suggests that Spartan be revived and reinstated to the force to help them capture Phoenix.
Lieutenant Lenina Huxley is assigned to assist Spartan in his transition.

The revived Spartan has trouble adapting to life in the future.
Most of Huxley's fellow officers find him thuggish and uncivilized.
Spartan tells them Phoenix will try to acquire a gun.
After Phoenix breaks into a museum's weapon exhibition to arm himself, he evades Spartan before running into Cocteau and tries shooting him, but is unable.
Cocteau reminds him of why he was revived: to kill Edgar Friendly, the ragtag leader of the "Scraps" - resistance fighters living in the ruins beneath San Angeles.
After seeing their exchange on security cameras, Spartan and Huxley determine that Cocteau programmed Phoenix to make him a more capable, dangerous maniac, using him as an assassin to eliminate Friendly.
While Spartan, Huxley and young officer Alfredo Garcia enter the underground city to warn Friendly, Phoenix confronts Cocteau and demands that he release a list of other prisoners to assist him.

At Friendly's base, Phoenix and his gang attempt to kill both Spartan and Friendly, but the pair, Huxley and Garcia repel the attack.
During a subsequent car chase, Phoenix brags to Spartan that the hostages he tried saving in 1996 were dead before the building exploded.
Though Phoenix escapes, Friendly, recruiting Garcia, leads the Scraps from the underground to join the police against Phoenix and his gang.

Phoenix orders the gang to kill Cocteau as he cannot harm Cocteau directly.
Spartan and Huxley arrive at Cocteau's headquarters to capture Phoenix and any accomplice to him, but he escapes to the prison to revive even more dangerous convicts.
After knocking out Huxley to protect her, Spartan enters the prison to confront Phoenix.
Spartan uses a cryo-tube to freeze Phoenix solid, then beheads Phoenix and escapes just before the cryo-machinery overloads, destroying the prison.
With Cocteau dead and the prison destroyed, the police and Scraps find themselves at odds over how to begin the framework for their new society.
Spartan suggests that they find a way to compromise between order and personal freedom, then kisses Huxley and departs with her.