A group of rogue U.S. Force Recon Marines led by disenchanted Brigadier General Frank Hummel (Ed Harris) seize a stockpile of deadly VX gas–armed M55 rockets from a heavily guarded US Navy bunker, reluctantly leaving one of their men to die in the process, when a bead of the gas falls and breaks.
The next day, Hummel and his men, along with more renegade Marines led by Captains Frye (Gregory Sporleder) and Darrow (Tony Todd), seize control of Alcatraz during a guided tour and take 81 tourists hostage in the prison cells.
Hummel threatens to launch the stolen rockets against the population of San Francisco unless the government pays them $100 million from a military slush fund containing money from illegal arms sales, which he will distribute to his troops and the families of Recon Marines who died on clandestine missions under his command and whose deaths were not compensated: "These men died for their country, and they weren't even given a goddamn military burial.
The situation is unacceptable."

The Pentagon and FBI develop a plan to retake the island with a U.S. Navy SEAL team, enlisting the FBI's top chemical weapons specialist, Dr Stanley Goodspeed (Nicolas Cage), who initially thinks he is to be consulting the team, but soon learns that he has to accompany the SEALs due to his specialisation in chemical warfare.
Goodspeed's confidence, already shaky as he is a "lab rat" with minimal combat training and experience, is further tested when his fiancee Carla reveals that she is pregnant.

Recognizing that any surface approach will be seen by Hummel's men, FBI director James Womack (John Spencer) is forced to turn to federal prisoner John Mason (Sean Connery), a 60-year-old British national suspected of being an agent of MI-6 illegally spying in America, who has been illegally imprisoned without charges for three decades by Womack and his predecessors for reasons which Womack refuses to specify.
Mason's usefulness is due to his being the only Alcatraz inmate ever to successfully escape the island, doing so in 1963 through the prison's uncharted underground tunnels.

Although Goodspeed manages to convince Mason to cooperate with the FBI in return for a pardon from the Attorney General, Womack privately reneges on the deal.
While in custody at a hotel, Mason takes Womack hostage and then flees.
He steals a Hummer H1 and Goodspeed pursues in a commandeered Ferrari F355, resulting in a wild high speed chase through the streets.
Mason seeks out his estranged daughter Jade (Claire Forlani), who is the only proof that he exists.
Goodspeed soon arrives with a team to re-arrest Mason and reveals to Jade that he is aiding the FBI.
Womack is adamant that Mason should only consult the SEALs, confiding to Special Agent Ernest Paxton (William Forsythe) that he does not want Mason loose.
However, as Mason has committed his route through the tunnels to memory, Womack has no choice but to let him accompany the SEALs.

The team infiltrates Alcatraz through the underground tunnels with Mason's guidance.
However, Hummel's Marines are alerted to their presence and ambush them in a shower room from an elevated position.
Hummel attempts to avoid bloodshed by persuading the team to surrender, but SEAL Commander Anderson (Michael Biehn) refuses to give this order and Captains Frye and Darrow provoke a gunfight, in which all the SEALs are killed, leaving only Mason and Goodspeed alive.
Mason sees his chance to escape custody and easily disarms Goodspeed.
However, Goodspeed convinces him to help defuse the rockets, since Mason's daughter is also at risk from them.
Back on the mainland, Paxton demands to know exactly who Mason is.
Womack finally reveals that Mason was a highly trained British MI6 agent and SAS Captain who stole a microfilm containing details of the US's most closely guarded secrets, including the Roswell UFO incident and the JFK assassination, refused to give it up when captured, and has thus been illegally held prisoner ever since.

Using Mason's knowledge of the prison and proficiency in combat, he and Goodspeed quietly eliminate several small teams of Marines and disable 12 of the 15 rockets.
Hummel is so enraged that he threatens over the loudspeaker to execute a hostage if the remaining "Navy SEALs" do not surrender and return the guidance chips from the rockets.
Mason surrenders to Hummel, trying to reason with him- and to buy Goodspeed some time.
Though Goodspeed disables another rocket, the Marines capture him shortly thereafter.
With the incursion team lost, the military gives a go ahead to their backup plan, which Hummel also knows about: an air strike by F/A-18s with Thermite plasma, which will neutralize the poison gas but also kill everyone on the island including the hostages.

After Mason releases them both from their cells, he explains to Goodspeed why he was held prisoner for so many years and adds that he did not return the microfilm because he knew the FBI would "suicide" him if he did.
While Goodspeed and Mason search for the final two rockets, Hummel fires one of them but changes the coordinates at the last moment, causing it to crash harmlessly out to sea.
Facing Frye and Darrow's frustration, Hummel explains that their bluff failed and that he is unwilling to harm innocent civilians.
He orders them to exit Alcatraz with a few hostages and the remaining VX rockets to cover their retreat, while he'll stay, personally assuming blame.
Realizing that they will not be paid their $1 million apiece, Frye, Darrow and Sergeant Crisp (Bokeem Woodbine) wage mutiny against Hummel and his second-in-command and old friend, Major Tom Baxter (David Morse).

With Mason and Goodspeed watching from afar, Crisp attempts to secure Hummel on Darrow's orders, but Hummel draws his own gun and holds Crisp at gunpoint.
Baxter appears to join the mutiny at first but then fires at the three rogues.
Mason and Goodspeed fire through a window at the mutineers, forcing them to retreat.
In the ensuing firefight, Crisp and Baxter are killed while Darrow is wounded in the shoulder and Hummel is shot multiple times through the chest.
Mason drags him away and with his last breath, Hummel tells Goodspeed the location of the final rocket.
Darrow and Frye escape and proceed with the plan to fire on San Francisco.
While Mason deals with the remaining Marines, Goodspeed seeks out the last rocket.
As the jets approach, Darrow is killed when Goodspeed fires the last disarmed rocket into him and he is impaled on a fencepost.
Goodspeed stows the last gas pearls from the warhead and takes a loose one and the microchip which directs it, but is then attacked by Frye who begins to strangle Goodspeed to death.
Goodspeed shoves the VX gas pearl into Frye's mouth, breaking the pearl and exposing both of them to the gas.
Goodspeed injects himself in the heart with atropine as Frye dies from the VX gas.
Goodspeed then lights green flares to signal that the threat is over, but only after one of the pilots fires, sending Goodspeed flying into the sea.
The early detonation hits the back of the island and harms no one else.

Mason reappears to pull the unconscious Goodspeed to shore.
When he recovers, Goodspeed tells Mason that Womack tore up his pardon, which does not surprise Mason.
Goodspeed informs his superiors that Mason was killed, and tells Mason to take the clothes and $200 he stashed in his hotel room.
Mason thanks Goodspeed, and gives him a note that holds the location of the hidden microfilm.
Womack arrives wanting to see Mason's body, but Goodspeed says it was "vaporized" by the thermite plasma (Paxton appears to guess the truth, but, disgusted with Womack and his illegal treatment of Mason, does not reveal it).
Some time later, Goodspeed and Carla (Vanessa Marcil) visit St. Michael's Church in Fort Walton, Kansas and recover the microfilm containing a half-century of state secrets, including who actually killed John F. Kennedy.