Marion Crane and her boyfriend meet for a secret romantic rendezvous during lunch hour at a hotel in Phoenix, Arizona.
They then talk about how they can barely afford to get married.
Upon Marion's return to work at a realtor's office, a client comes in with $40,000 in cash to purchase a house for his daughter.
The money is entrusted to Marion, who decides to steal it and skip town.

On the road, she pulls over to sleep and is awoken by a policeman who can tell something is wrong.
The policeman lets her go, but upon arriving in another town, Marion pulls into a used car dealership and hastily exchanges her car for another one.
Driving during a rainy night, Marion pulls up to the Bates Motel, a remote lodging that has recently lost business due to a diversion of the main highway.
The proprietor, youthful but nervous Norman Bates, invites her to a light dinner in the parlor.
Norman discloses that his mother is mentally ill, but he becomes irate and bristles when Marion suggests that she should be institutionalized.
The conversation induces Marion to decide to return to Phoenix and return the stolen money.
Marion later takes a shower in her room, during which a shadowy figure comes and stabs her to death.
Norman bursts into the bathroom and discovers Marion's dead body.
He wraps the body in the shower curtain and cleans up the bathroom.
He puts Marion's body in the trunk of her car and sinks it in a nearby swamp.

In Phoenix, Marion's sister Lila and boyfriend Sam Loomis are concerned about her disappearance.
A detective named Arbogast confirms Marion is suspected of having stolen $40,000 from her employer.
Arbogast eventually finds the Bates Motel, where Norman's evasiveness and stammering arouse his suspicions.
Arbogast later enters the Bates' residence, looking for Norman's mother.
A figure emerges from her room and murders Arbogast.

Fearing something has happened to Arbogast, Sam and Lila go to the town of Fairvale and talk with the local sheriff.
He is puzzled by the detective's claim that he was planning to talk to Norman's mother, stating that Mrs. Bates died years ago, along with her lover, in a murder-suicide.
Norman, seen from above, carries his mother down to the cellar of their house as she verbally protests the arrangement.

Sam and Lila rent a room at the Bates Motel and search the cabin that Marion stayed in.
Lila finds a scrap of paper with "$40,000" written on it while Sam notes that the bathtub has no shower curtain.
Sam distracts Norman while Lila sneaks into the house, looking for Mrs. Bates.
Norman subdues Sam and chases Lila.
Seeing Norman approaching, Lila hides in the cellar and discovers Mrs. Bates sitting in a rocking chair.
The chair rotates to reveal a desiccated corpse, the preserved body of Mrs. Bates.
A figure enters the basement, wearing a dress and wig while wielding a large knife, revealing Norman to be the murderer all along.
Sam enters and saves Lila.

After Norman's arrest, a psychiatrist who interviewed Norman reveals that Norman had murdered his mother and her lover years ago, and later developed a split personality to erase the crime from his memory.
At times, he is able to function as Norman, but other times the mother personality completely dominates him.
Norman is now locked into his mother's identity permanently.
Mrs. Bates, in a voice-over, talks about how harmless she is, and how it was really Norman, not she, who committed the murders.
The final scene shows Marion's car being recovered from the swamp.