Alike is a 17 year old African American girl who hangs out at clubs with her openly lesbian friend Laura.
Alike slowly and firmly comes to terms with her own identity as a butch lesbian, comfortable in baggy clothes and male underwear.
Her mother Audrey approves of neither her clothes nor her friendship with Laura.
Harboring growing suspicions about Alike's sexuality, Audrey forces her to wear feminine clothing and tries to stem any influence from Laura by pushing Alike to instead make friends with a young girl from her church.
Alike has a better relationship with her father Arthur, who is a police officer.

Alike begins to develop feelings for Bina, the friend from church and starts spending more time with her than with Laura, much to Laura's annoyance.
Arthur comes back late a few times from work, which angers Audrey and the two of them fight often.
Arthur does not think much about Alike's changes in her life, believing them just to be a phase, and in turn becomes supportive of her, though he remains in denial about her sexual identity.

One night after going to see an alternative rock band, Alike and Bina are alone in Bina's room when Bina begins caressing and kissing Alike.
Alike is at first hesitant, having had no prior experience with physical intimacy.
However, she eventually responds and the two spend the night together.
In the morning, Alike talks to Bina about where they want their relationship to go, but Bina says there is no relationship, as she is not "really gay" and only regarded their physical encounter as playful indulgence.
Her only further interest in Alike seems to be her concern that Alike not tell anyone else about the two of them.
Hurt and upset, Alike leaves and returns home and cries for hours.

During that time, Audrey and Arthur have an explosive fight about Alike.
Despite her sister's protests, Alike decides to intervene in the fight and she comes out to her parents.
Disgusted, Audrey viciously attacks Alike while Arthur tries to restrain her.
Alike flees to Laura's house where the two friends reconcile.
Audrey then tries to forget that anything happened, which annoys the rest of her family.
Arthur comes to meet with Alike, apologizes for Audrey's actions and requests that Alike come back home, offering half-hearted assurance that if she does, "things will be different".
Alike says that she will not return home, but instead plans to move to California to begin college early.
She assures her father that, "I'm not running; I'm choosing."

Before leaving, Alike makes an attempt to reconcile with her mother as well.
However, her mother refuses to accept her and offers only that she will be praying for Alike.
Arthur and Laura see Alike off on her journey west and the film ends with Alike reading a poem she wrote whose theme echoes her words to her father that she is not running, but choosing.