An American family, Dr. Benjamin "Ben" McKenna (James Stewart), his wife, popular singer Josephine Conway "Jo" McKenna (Doris Day), and their son Henry "Hank" McKenna (Christopher Olsen) are vacationing in Morocco.
Traveling from Casablanca to Marrakesh, they meet a Frenchman named Louis Bernard (Daniel Gelin), who seems friendly.
However, Jo is suspicious of his many questions and evasive answers and thinks that he is hiding something.
Louis offers to take the McKennas out to dinner but cancels when a sinister-looking man knocks at the McKenna's hotel room claiming to be looking for another guest's room.
Later, at a local restaurant, the McKennas meet an English couple, Lucy (Brenda De Banzie) and Edward Drayton (Bernard Miles), who strike up a conversation with the McKennas, who are surprised to see Bernard arrive and sit at another table apparently ignoring them.

The next day, exploring a busy outdoor market in Marrakesh with the Draytons, the McKennas see a man in Arab clothing being chased by police.
After being stabbed in the back, the man approaches Ben, who discovers it is actually Louis in disguise.
The dying Bernard whispers that a foreign statesman will be assassinated in London very soon and that Ben must tell the authorities there about "Ambrose Chappell".
Lucy offers to return Hank to the hotel while the police question Ben and Jo.
An officer explains that Louis was a French Intelligence agent on assignment in Morocco.
While at the police station, Ben receives a phone call from a mysterious man who informs him that Hank has been kidnapped but will not be harmed if the McKennas say nothing to the police about Bernard's last words.

After arriving in London, Scotland Yard's Inspector Buchanan (Ralph Truman) tells the McKennas that Louis was trying to uncover an assassination plot, and that they should contact him if they hear from the kidnappers.
Leaving friends in their hotel room, the McKennas attempt to question a man named "Ambrose Chappell" but finally track the kidnappers to a church named "Ambrose Chapel", where Drayton, posing as a minister, is leading a service.
While Jo calls police, Drayton ends the service early.
Ben confronts him and is knocked out and locked in the chapel.
The Draytons take Hank to a foreign embassy just before Jo arrives with the police at the now seemingly deserted chapel.
Jo learns that Buchanan has gone to a concert at the Royal Albert Hall and goes there to get his help.
There, she sees the sinister man who mistakenly came to her door in Morocco.
When he threatens to harm Hank if she interferes, she realizes that he is the assassin sent to kill the foreign Prime Minister (Alexis Bobrinskoy) who is now also at the concert hall.

Ben escapes the locked chapel and follows Jo to the hall, where she points out the assassin.
Ben frantically searches the balcony boxes for the killer, who is waiting for a cymbal crash to mask his gunshot.
Jo sees the barrel of the assassin's gun and screams right before the cymbals crash.
The assassin misses his mark and merely wounds his target.
Ben finds and struggles with the would-be-killer, who then falls to his death from the balcony.
The grateful Prime Minister invites the McKennas to meet with him at his London embassy.

The McKennas learn that the Draytons are in the Prime Minister's embassy, where Hank is being held, and where the ambassador (Mogens Wieth) has led the plot to kill his own Prime Minister.
Hatching a plan to find their son, Ben and Jo are welcomed as heroes for having saved the Prime Minister's life, and the Prime Minister asks Jo to sing a song.
Jo loudly sings Que Sera, Sera (Whatever Will Be, Will Be), a song with which Hank is familiar, so that he will hear her voice and hopefully respond.
Lucy, who is guarding Hank but is unwilling to harm him, tells Hank to whistle along with the song, which draws Ben to the room where he is being held.
Drayton catches them and tries escaping with them as hostages, but when Ben strikes him, he falls and kills himself accidentally when his gun fires.

The McKennas return to their now-sleeping friends in their hotel room, where Ben says, "I'm sorry we were gone so long, but we had to go over and pick up Hank."