Beverly Sutphin (Kathleen Turner) appears to be a typical suburban housewife living with her dentist husband, Eugene (Sam Waterston), and their children, Misty (Ricki Lake) and Chip (Matthew Lillard), in the suburbs of Baltimore.
However, she is secretly a serial killer, murdering people over the most trivial of perceived slights, including mere faux pas.

During breakfast, two police officers arrive to question the family about the vulgar harassment of their neighbor, Dottie Hinkle (Mink Stole).
After the police and her family leave, Beverly disguises her voice to make obscene phone calls to Dottie, because Dottie stole a parking space from Beverly.
Later that day, Mr. Stubbins, Chip's high school math teacher, becomes Beverly's first known murder victim after he criticizes Chip's interests and questions the boy's mental health and family life; Beverly runs him over with her car, and is witnessed by Luann Hodges, a young woman smoking marijuana nearby.
The next day, Misty is upset when Carl Pageant stands her up for a date.
Beverly spots Carl with another girl at a swap meet, and murders him in the bathroom with a fireplace poker.

Eugene discovers that Beverly has hidden a collection of serial killer memorabilia beneath their mattress.
That evening at dinner, Chip comments that his friend Scotty (Justin Whalin) thinks that she is the killer.
Beverly immediately leaves in her car, prompting the family to rush to Scotty's house for fear that Beverly plans to kill him, however, Beverly has actually gone to kill Eugene's patient, Betty Sterner (Kathy Fannon), who called Eugene away to treat her on a Saturday.
She stabs Betty with scissors borrowed from Rosemary, and causes an air conditioner to fall on Ralph, who caught her killing his wife.

That Sunday, police follow the Sutphins to church and a news report names Beverly as the suspect in the murders of the Sterners.
The church service ends in pandemonium when a suspicious sound causes everyone to panic and flee the church.
Police detectives confirm that Beverly's fingerprints match those at the Sterner crime scene and attempt to arrest her, but she escapes.
She hides at the video rental store where Chip works, but a customer, Mrs. Jensen (Patsy Grady Abrams), bickers with Chip over paying a fee for failing to rewind a videotape and calls him a "son of a psycho".
Beverly follows Mrs. Jensen home and bludgeons her to death with a leg of lamb while the woman sings along to "Tomorrow" on her rented copy of Annie.
Scotty witnesses the attack through a window, and a car chase ensues.
Beverly ends up setting Scotty on fire at Hammerjack's, on-stage in front of a deranged crowd during the set of an all-girl band called Camel Lips (L7).
The Sutphin family arrive, as do the police, and Beverly is arrested.

Beverly's trial becomes a national sensation.
The media dub her "Serial Mom", Chip hires an agent to manage the family's media appearances, and Misty sells merchandise outside the courthouse.
During opening arguments, Beverly's lawyer claims that Beverly is not guilty by reason of insanity, but she fires him and proposes to represent herself.
The judge reluctantly agrees and the trial begins.
Beverly proceeds systematically to discredit every witness against her, including inciting Dottie Hinkle to contempt of court and finding a transsexual-themed magazine in Detective Gracey's trash.
During a second detective's crucial testimony, the entire courtroom is distracted by the arrival of Suzanne Somers, who plans to portray Beverly as the heroine of a TV movie.

Beverly is acquitted of all charges, stunning her family who vow to "never get on her nerves".
Throughout the trial, Beverly has been displeased that a juror is wearing white shoes after Labor Day.
Beverly follows her to a payphone and fatally strikes her in the head with the receiver.
Suzanne Somers then angers Beverly into an outburst by trying to pose for a picture that will show Beverly's "bad side", just as the juror's body is discovered.

The film ends with a close-up of Beverly's wicked smile and a caption stating that Beverly "refused to cooperate" with the making of the film.