Lloyd Christmas (Carrey) and Harry Dunne (Daniels) are best friends and roommates living in Providence, Rhode Island who struggle at every aspect of life.
Lloyd, a limousine driver, falls instantly in love with Mary Swanson (Holly), a woman he is driving to the airport.
She leaves her briefcase in the terminal.
Lloyd, unaware that it contains ransom money for her kidnapped husband Bobby, retrieves it and tries to return it to her, but her Aspen-bound plane has already departed.

Fired from his job, Lloyd heads back to his apartment and learns that Harry has also been fired from his job.
Two of Bobby's kidnappers, Joe "Mental" Mentalino (Starr) and J.P. Shay (Duffy) have followed Lloyd home from the airport in pursuit of the briefcase.
Mistaking the crooks for debt collectors, the duo flee the apartment and return later.
Upset about their situation, Lloyd suggests they head to Aspen to find Mary and return the briefcase, hoping she can "plug them into the social pipeline."
Initially opposed to the idea, Harry soon agrees to Lloyd's proposal and they leave the next day.
Mental and Shay find out about their plans and follow them.

During their trip, the duo encounter several incidents, the most serious of which include when Mental, posing as a hitchhiker, is picked up by Harry and Lloyd, while Shay follows them in pursuit.
During a lunch stop, the duo unintentionally kill Mental with rat poison (which he planned to use on them) after mistaking it for his medicine.
Nearing Colorado, Lloyd takes a wrong turn and ends up driving all night in the wrong direction.
After waking up and realizing Lloyd's mistake, Harry angrily gives up on the journey and attempts to return home, but Lloyd persuades him to continue their trip after trading their van for a moped.

The duo soon arrive in Aspen but are unable to locate Mary.
After a short scuffle that night, the briefcase breaks open and they discover the money.
Low on cash and needing somewhere to stay, they borrow some of the money for a luxurious hotel room, but also buy new clothes and a Lamborghini Diablo.
They soon learn that Mary and her family will be hosting a gala and prepare to attend.
At the dinner gala, Harry, attempting to lure Mary over to Lloyd, reluctantly agrees to go skiing with her the next day and lies to Lloyd that he got him a date.
The next day, Lloyd finds out Harry lied to him after waiting all day for Mary at a bar.

After incapacitating Harry with an overdosage of laxatives which causes a bout of explosive diarrhea, Lloyd arrives at Mary's house and informs her he has her briefcase.
He takes her to the hotel room and shows her the briefcase.
Lloyd confesses his love for Mary, but is rejected.
Nicholas Andre (Rocket), a confidant of the Swansons and the mastermind behind Bobby's kidnapping, arrives at the hotel with Shay and, upon learning most of the ransom money is gone, takes Lloyd and Mary hostage, as well as Harry after he returns to the hotel.
Before Nicholas can kill them, an FBI team raids the hotel room and arrests him and Shay.
After the incident, Mary and Bobby are reunited, much to the jealousy of Lloyd.

The film ends with Harry and Lloyd wandering down a desert road.
All of the items they bought with the ransom money were confiscated and their moped has broken down.
The two unknowingly decline the chance to be oil boys for a group of Hawaiian Tropic bikini girls, after which Harry ironically tells Lloyd that they will get their "break" one day.
They then play a friendly game of tag, closing the film.